.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2016 QoSient, LLC
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
.\" any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH RADIUM.CONF 1 "07 November 2000" "radium.conf 3.0.8"
.SH NAME
\fBradium.conf\fP \- \fBradium\fP resource file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B radium.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION

Radium will open this radium.conf if its installed as /etc/radium.conf.
It will also search for this file as radium.conf in directories
specified in $RADIUMPATH, or $RADIUMHOME, $RADIUMHOME/lib,
or $HOME, $HOME/lib, and parse it to set common configuration
options.  All values in this file can be overriden by command
line options, or other files of this format that can be read in
using the -F option.

.SH Variable Syntax

Variable assignments must be of the form:
.nf
  VARIABLE=
.fi
with no white space between the VARIABLE and the '=' sign.
Quotes are optional for string arguments, but if you want
to embed comments, then quotes are required.

.SH RADIUM_DAEMON

Radium is capable of running as a daemon, doing all the right things
that daemons do.  When this configuration is used for the system
daemon process, say for /etc/radium.conf, this variable should be
set to "yes".

The default value is to not run as a daemon.

This example is to support the ./support/Startup/radium script
which requires that this variable be set to "yes".

Commandline equivalent  -d

\fBRADIUM_DAEMON=\fPno

.SH RADIUM_MONITOR_ID

Radium Monitor Data is uniquely identifiable based on the source
identifier that is included in each output record.  This is to
allow you to work with Argus Data from multiple monitors at the
same time.  The ID is 32 bits long, and supports a number of
formats as legitimate values. Radium supports unsigned ints, IPv4
addresses and 4 bytes strings, as values.

The formats are discerned from the values provided.  Double-quoted
values are treated as strings, and are truncated to 4 characters.
Non-quoted values are tested for whether they are hostnames, and if
not, then they are tested wheter they are numbers.

The configuration allows for you to use host names, however, do
have some understanding how `hostname` will be resolved by the
nameserver before commiting to this strategy completely.

For convenience, argus supports the notion of "`hostname`" for
assigning the probe's id.  This is to support management of
large deployments, so you can have one argus.conf file that works
for a lot of probes.

For security, argus does not rely on system programs, like hostname.1.
It implements the logic of hostname itself, so don't try to run
arbitrary programs using this method, because it won't work.

Commandline equivalent   -e

\fBRADIUM_MONITOR_ID\fP=`hostname`    // IPv4 address returned
\fBRADIUM_MONITOR_ID\fP=10.2.45.3     // IPv4 address
\fBRADIUM_MONITOR_ID\fP=2435          // Number
\fBRADIUM_MONITOR_ID\fP="en0"         // String


.SH RADIUM_ARGUS_SERVER

Radium can attach to any number of remote argus servers, and
collect argus data in real time.  The syntax for this variable
is a hostname or a dot notation IP address, followed by an
optional port value, separated by a ':'.  If the port is not
specified, the default value of 561 is used.

Commandline equivalent   -S <host[:port]>

\fBRADIUM_ARGUS_SERVER\fP=localhost:561

.SH RADIUM_CISCONETFLOW_PORT

Radium can read Cicso Netflow records directly from Cisco
routers.  Specifying this value will alert Radium to open
a UDP based socket listening for data from this name or address.

Commandline equivalent   -C

\fBRADIUM_CISCONETFLOW_PORT\fP=9996

.SH RADIUM_USER_AUTH, RADIUM_AUTH_PASS

When argus is compiled with SASL support, ra* clients may be
required to authenticate to the argus server before the argus
will accept the connection.  This variable will allow one to
set the user and authorization id's, if needed.  Although
not recommended you can provide a password through the
RADIUM_AUTH_PASS variable.  The format for this variable is:

Commandline equivalent   -U

\fBRADIUM_USER_AUTH\fP=user_id/authorization_id
\fBRADIUM_AUTH_PASS\fP=the_password

.SH RADIUM_ACCESS_PORT

Radium monitors can provide a real-time remote access port
for collecting Radium data.  This is a TCP based port service and
the default port number is tcp/561, the "experimental monitor"
service.  This feature is disabled by default, and can be forced
off by setting it to zero (0).

When you do want to enable this service, 561 is a good choice,
as all ra* clients are configured to try this port by default.

Commandline equivalent  -P

\fBRADIUM_ACCESS_PORT=\fP561

.SH RADIUM_BIND_IP

When remote access is enabled (see above), you can specify that
Radium should bind only to a specific IP address.  This is useful,
for example, in restricting access to the local host, or binding
to a private interface while capturing from another. The default
is to bind to any IP address.

Commandline equivalent  -B

\fBRADIUM_BIND_IP=\fP"127.0.0.1"

.SH RADIUM_OUTPUT_FILE

Radium can write its output to one or a number of files,
default limit is 5 concurrent files, each with their own
independant filters.

The format is:
.nf
     RADIUM_OUTPUT_FILE=/full/path/file/name
     RADIUM_OUTPUT_FILE=/full/path/file/name "filter"
.fi

Most sites will have radium write to a file, for reliablity 
and performance.  The example file name is used here as
supporting programs, such as ./support/Archive/radiumarchive
are configured to use this file.

Commandline equivalent  -w

\fBRADIUM_OUTPUT_FILE=\fP/var/log/radium/radium.out

.SH RADIUM_SET_PID

When Radium is configured to run as a daemon, with the -d
option, Radium can store its pid in a file, to aid in
managing the running daemon.  However, creating a system
pid file requires priviledges that may not be appropriate
for all cases.

When configured to generate a pid file, if Radium cannot
create the pid file, it will fail to run.  This variable
is available to override the default, in case this gets
in your way.

The default value is to generate a pid.

No Commandline equivalent   

\fBRADIUM_SET_PID\fP=yes

 
.SH RADIUM_ADJUST_TIME

Radium can correct for time synchronization problems that
may exist between data sources.  If configured to do so,
radium will adjust all the timestamps in records by the
calculated drift between radium and its many data sources.
Records whose timevalues have been 'corrected' are marked
so that subsequent readers can differentiate between 
true primitive time and modified time.

Commandline equivalent   -T
 
\fBRADIUM_ADJUST_TIME=\fPno

.SH RADIUM_MAR_STATUS_INTERVAL

Radium will periodically report on a its own health, providing
interface status, total packet and bytes counts, packet drop
rates, and flow oriented statistics.

These records can be used as "keep alives" for periods when
there is no network traffic to be monitored.

The default value is 300 seconds, but a value of 60 seconds is
very common.

Commandline equivalent   -M

\fBRADIUM_MAR_STATUS_INTERVAL\fP=60

.SH RADIUM_DEBUG_LEVEL

If compiled to support this option, Radium is capable of
generating a lot of debug information.

The default value is zero (0).

Commandline equivalent  -D

\fBRADIUM_DEBUG_LEVEL=\fP0

.SH RADIUM_FILTER_OPTIMIZER

Radium uses the packet filter capabilities of libpcap.  If
there is a need to not use the libpcap filter optimizer,
you can turn it off here.  The default is to leave it on.

Commandline equivalent  -O

\fBRADIUM_FILTER_OPTIMIZER=\fPyes

.SH RADIUM_FILTER

You can provide a filter expression here, if you like.
It should be limited to 2K in length.  The default is to
not filter.

No Commandline equivalent

\fBRADIUM_FILTER=\fP""


.SH RADIUM_CHROOT_DIR

Radium supports chroot(2) in order to control the file system that
radium exists in and can access.  Generally used when radium is running
with privleges, this limits the negative impacts that radium could
inflict on its host machine.  

This option will cause the output file names to be relative to this
directory, and so consider this when trying to find your output files.

Commandline equivalent   -C

\fBRADIUM_CHROOT_DIR=\fP""
 
 
.SH RADIUM_SETUSER_ID

Radium can be directed to change its user id using the setuid() system
call.  This is can used when radium is started as root, in order to
access privleged resources, but then after the resources are opened,
this directive will cause radium to change its user id value to
a 'lesser' capable account.  Recommended when radium is running as a
daemon. 

Commandline equivalent   -u 

\fBRADIUM_SETUSER_ID=\fP"user"
 
.SH RADIUM_SETGROUP_ID
 
Radium can be directed to change its group id using the setgid() system
call.  This is can used when radium is started as root, in order to
access privleged resources, but then after the resources are opened,
this directive can be used to change argu's group id value to
a 'lesser' capable account.  Recommended when radium is running as a
daemon.

Commandline equivalent   -g

\fBRADIUM_SETGROUP_ID=\fP"group"


.SH RADIUM_CLASSIFIER_FILE

Radium can be used to label records as they are distributed.
This can be used to classify flow records, or simply to mark
them for post processing purposes.

When provided with a ralabel.conf formatted file, radium will
label all matching records.

Commandline equivalent   none

\fBRADIUM_CLASSIFIER_FILE\fP=/usr/local/argus/ralabel.conf


.SH RADIUM_CORRELATE

Radium has a correlation function, where flow data from multiple
source's can be compared and 'correlateda.

This function is enabled with a single radium configuration
keyword RADIUM_CORRELATE="yes".  With this variable set, radium().
will buffer incoming data to generate delay, and will correlate
data from multiple sources with an event window of about 3 seconds.
Data that is matchable, which means that it has the same flow identifiers,
or the same hints, will treated as if they were "observed" by multiple
probes, and merged.

 Commandline equivalent   none

\fBRADIUM_CORRELATE=\fP"no"

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2000-2016 QoSient  All rights reserved.

.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR radium (8)

