.\"
.\" Argus-5.0 Software
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2024 QoSient, LLC
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"
.TH RADNS.CONF 1 "23 October 2019" "radns.conf 5.0.0"
.SH NAME
\fBradns.conf\fP \- \fBradns\fP resource file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B radns.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION

Radns will open this radns.conf if its installed as /etc/radns.conf.
It will also search for this file as radns.conf in directories
specified in $RADNSPATH, or $RADNSHOME, $RADNSHOME/lib,
or $HOME, $HOME/lib, and parse it to set common configuration
options.  All values in this file can be overriden by command
line options, or other files of this format that can be read in
using the -F option.

.SH Variable Syntax

Variable assignments must be of the form:
.nf
  VARIABLE=
.fi
with no white space between the VARIABLE and the '=' sign.
Quotes are optional for string arguments, but if you want
to embed comments, then quotes are required.

.SH RADNS_ROOT_DOMAINS

This comma separated list of NLD DNS domain names represent root
domain names that are local to this \fBradns\P instance.

There is no default value.

Commandline equivalent  none

\fBRADNS_ROOT_DOMAINS=\fP"qosient.com"


.SH RADNS_ROOT_DEFAULT

This variable assigns the default NLD DNS domain name for this region.
DNS queries do not require the name to be fully qualified (FQDN). When the
name in a query is not a FQDN, radns will use this \fBRADNS_ROOT_DEFAULT\fP
to complete the name that is stored in its DNS cache.

There is no default value.

Commandline equivalent  none

\fBRADNS_ROOT_DEFAULT=\fP"qosient.com"


.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2000-2024 QoSient  All rights reserved.

.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR radns (1)
