.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2016 QoSient, LLC
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
.\" any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH RALABEL.CONF 1 "07 November 2009" "ralabel.conf 3.0.8"
.SH NAME
\fBralabel.conf\fP \- \fBralabel\fP resource file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ralabel.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION

This configuration is a ralabel(1) configuration file.

The concept is to provide a number of labeling strategies
with configuration capabilities for each of the labelers.
This allows the user to specify the order of the labeling,
which is provided to support hierarchical labeling.

Here is a valid and simple configuration file.   It doesn't do
anything in particular, but it is one that is used at some sites.

.SH Supported Labeling Strategies
.SH Addresss Based Classification

Address based classifications involve building a patricia tree
that we can hang labels against.  The strategy is to order the
address label configuration files, to develop a hierarchical
label scheme.


.SH IANA IPv4 and IPv6 Address Classification Labeling
.SH RALABEL_IANA_ADDRESS

The type of IP network address can be used by many analysis
programs to make decisions.  While IANA standard classifications
don't change, this type of classification should be extendable
to allow local sites to provide additional labeling capabilities.

.nf
\fBRALABEL_IANA_ADDRESS\fP=yes
\fBRALABEL_IANA_ADDRESS_FILE\fP="/usr/local/argus/iana-address-file"
.fi


.SH Addresss Based Country Code Classification

.SH RALABEL_ARIN_COUNTRY_CODES

Address based country code classification leverages the feature
where ra* clients cant print country codes for the IP addresses
that are in a flow record.  Country codes are generated from the ARIN
delegated address space files.  Specify the location of your
DELEGATED_IP file here, or in your .rarc file (which is default).

Unlike the GeoIP based country code labeling, these codes can be sorted
filtered and aggregated, so if you want to do that type of operations
with country codes, enable this feature here.

.nf
\fBRALABEL_ARIN_COUNTRY_CODES\fP=yes
\fBRA_DELEGATED_IP\fP="/usr/local/argus/delegated-ipv4-latest"
.fi

.SH BIND Based Classification
.SH RALABEL_BIND_NAME

BIND services provide address to name translations, and these
reverse lookup strategies can provide FQDN labels, or domain
labels that can be added to flow.  The IP addresses that can be
'labeled' are the saddr, daddr, or inode.  Keywords "yes" and "all"
are synonomous and result in labeling all three IP addresses.

Use this strategy to provide transient semantic enhancement based
on ip address values.

.nf
\fBRALABEL_BIND_NAME\fP="all"
.fi


.SH Port Based Classification

.SH RALABEL_IANA_PORT
Port based classifications involves simple assignment of a text
label to a specific port number.  While IANA standard classifications
are supported throught the Unix /etc/services file assignments,
and the basic "src port" and "dst port" ra* filter schemes,
this scheme is used to enhance/modify that labeling strategy.
The text associated with a port number is placed in the metadata
label field, and is searched using the regular expression searching
strategies that are available to label matching.

Use this strategy to provide transient semantic enhancement based   
on port values.

.nf
\fBRALABEL_IANA_PORT\fP=yes
\fBRALABEL_IANA_PORT_FILE\fP="/usr/local/argus/iana-port-numbers"
.fi


.SH Flow Filter Based Classification

Flow filter based classification uses the standard flow
filter strategies to provide a general purpose labeling scheme.
The concept is similar to racluster()'s fall through matching
scheme.  Fall through the list of filters, if it matches, add the
label.  If you want to continue through the list, once there is
a match,  add a "cont" to the end of the matching rule.

.SH RALABEL_ARGUS_FLOW

.nf
\fBRALABEL_ARGUS_FLOW\fP=yes
\fBRALABEL_ARGUS_FLOW_FILE\fP="/usr/local/argus/argus-flow-file"
.fi


.SH GeoIP Based Labeling

The labeling features can use the databases provided by MaxMind
using the GeoIP LGPL libraries.  If your code was configured to use
these libraries, then enable the features here.

GeoIP provides a lot of support for geo-location, configure support
by enabling a feature and providing the appropriate binary data files.
ASN reporting is done from a separate set of data files, obtained from
MaxMind.com, and so enabling this feature is independent of the
traditional city data available.

.SH RALABEL_GEOIP_ASN
Labeling data with Origin ASN values involves simply indicating the
desire, and the filename for the database of ASN numbers.

.nf
\fBRALABEL_GEOIP_ASN\fP=yes
\fBRALABEL_GEOIP_ASN_FILE\fP="/usr/local/share/GeoIP/GeoIPASNum.dat"
.fi


.SH RALABEL_GEOIP_CITY
Data for city relevant data is enabled through enabling and configuring
the city database support.  The types of data available are:
        country_code, country_code3, country_name, region, city, postal_code,
        latitude, longitude, metro_code, area_code and continent_code.
        time_offset is also available.  

The concept is that you should be able to add semantics for any
IP address that is in the argus record.  Support addresses are:
        saddr, daddr, inode


The labels provided will be tagged as:
        scity, dcity, icity

To configure what you want to have placed in the label, use the list of
objects, in whatever order you like, as the RALABLE_GEOPIP_CITY string
using these keywords:
        cco   - country_code
        cco3  - country_code3
        cname - country_name
        reg   - region
        city  - city
        pcode - postal_code
        lat   - latitude
        long  - longitude
        metro - metro_code
        area  - area_code
        cont  - continent_code
        off   - GMT time offset

Working examples could be:
        RALABEL_GEOIP_CITY="saddr,daddr:lat/lon"
        RALABEL_GEOIP_CITY="*:city,region,cname,lat,lon"
 
.nf
\fBRALABEL_GEOIP_CITY\fP="saddr,daddr,inode:lat,lon"
\fBRALABEL_GEOIP_CITY_FILE\fP="/usr/local/share/GeoIP/GeoIPCity.dat"
.fi

.RE
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2000-2016 QoSient  All rights reserved.

.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ralabel (1)

