.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2016 QoSient, LLC
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" QOSIENT, LLC DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
.\" FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL QOSIENT, LLC BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\" SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER
.\" RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF
.\" CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN
.\" CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\"
.TH RANONYMIZE.CONF 1 "14 November 2001" "ranonymize.conf 3.0.8"
.SH NAME
\fBranonymize.conf\fP \- \fBranonymize(1)\fP configuration file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ranonymize.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
This configuration file provides the ability to specify options
for argus data anoymization.

.SH OPTIONS
The anonymization clients have a small number of options for
controlling specific aspects of the anonymization function
and its output.  

.SH Timestamps, Reference and Sequence Numbers

Ranonymize anonymizes various fields in Argus records,
such as the network addresses, protocol specific port numbers,
timestamps, transaction reference numbers, and the sequence numbers.

For some fields, specifically the timestamps, transaction
reference numbers and the sequence numbers, which are generally
monotonically increasing counters, a good anonymization 
technique is to shift the values by a constant, so that the
sequential relationships between values is preserved.

The configuration provides some flexibility here, so that the
user can control fixed offset shifting anonymization.  The constant
value can be generated by the anonymization client at "random",
which is the default behavior, or the user can provide a "fixed:x",
where x is the fixed offset.  Of course, the keyword "none" can
be used to turn off the default anonymization for these values.

.nf
\fBRANON_TRANSREFNUM_OFFSET=\fPrandom
\fBRANON_SEQNUM_OFFSET=\fPrandom
\fBRANON_TIME_SEC_OFFSET=\fPrandom
\fBRANON_TIME_USEC_OFFSET=\fPrandom
.fi

.SH Ethernet Address Vendor Codes

When anonymizing ethernet addresses, \fBranonymize\fP has the
option to preserve the vendor portion, if desired.  This allows
analytical programs to differentiate anonymized data by vendor
type.  This feature is turned off by default.
 
\fBRANON_PRESERVE_ETHERNET_VENDOR=\fPno


.SH Broadcast Addresses

Ranonymize has the option to preserve the semantic that an
address is a broadcast address.  This is very important when
doing flow analysis for either operational or performance
managment tasks, using anonymized data.
 
\fBRANON_PRESERVE_BROADCAST_ADDRESS=\fPyes


.SH IPv4 Address Anonymization

IPv4 address are composed of two parts, a network part and
a host part.  Because the addressing strategy of a site may
have integrated semantics that would want to be retained in
the anonymized addresses, IPv4 address anonymization involves
specifying a one-to-one translation table for both the network
and host address spaces in an IPv4 address.  Once a new network
address has been allocated, every occurence of that network address
will be substituted in the anonymizers output stream.  The host
address space is anonymized in an independent but similar fashion.

Ranonymize allows you to specify the type of anonymization method
used in a number of categories. For network and host address
conversion, ranonymize can support "sequential", "random" or "no"
anonymization.  Sequential anonymization involves allocating
new addresses in a monotonically increasing fashion on a first come
first serve basis.  Random anonymization allocates random addresses
from the working pool of addresses, and "no" anonymization preserves
the address type, whether its network, host or both.

The default working pool of network addresses contains only
non-routable addresses, and starts with 10.0.0.0.  All anonymized
addresses are treated as Class C network addresses, in order to
conserve the anonymization allocation demands. 

As an example, if the first Argus record contained the addresses
128.64.2.4 and 132.243.2.87 as the source and destination, sequential
anonymization would generate the addresses 10.0.0.1 and 10.0.1.1
as the new source and destination addresses.  This is because,
the two addresses have differing network parts, 128.64.2 and 132.243.2,
these would be allocated 10.0.0 and 10.0.1 respectively (sequential
allocation).  Because these are the first hosts to be allocated,
the host parts are both 1.

Random anonymization could generate 10.24.31.203 and 10.1.34.18 as
possible addresses, as both the Class C network address would be
allocated randomly from the 10 network space, and the host address
part would be allocated randomly from the possible host addresses.

Sequential randomization uses the least amount of memory and
minimizes anonymization processing time, while random provides
better address scrambling.

Implemenation note: currently only supporting sequential

.nf
\fBRANON_NET_ANONYMIZATION=\fPsequential
\fBRANON_HOST_ANONYMIZATION=\fPsequential
.fi

.SH Address Hierarchy

Ranonymize has the option to preserve the network address
hierarchy at various levels of granularity.  This allows you to
preserve the addressing relationships between addresses.
The options are "cidr", "class", "subnet" and "no".

Class network adddress heirarchy preservation, causes ranonymize()
to allocate new network addresses base on the address class.  All
CLASSA network addresses will be allocated new addresses from the
Class A network pool.  Network addresses will be allocated as 24
bit CIDR addresses, in that the first 24 bits will map to a unique
24 network address, and host addresses will be allocated from the
254 address pool (0 and 255 can be preserved, see below).

\fBRANON_PRESERVE_NET_ADDRESS_HIERARCHY=\fPcidr


.SH Specific Network Address Aliasing

Ranonymize can be configured to perform specific network
address translation.  These must be specified as 24 bit CIDR
addresses.  RANON_PRESERVE_NET_ADDRESS_HIERARCHY must be
set to "cidr", for this feature to work.

Examples would be:

.nf
\fBRANON_SPECIFY_NET_TRANSLATION=\fP192.168.0.0::128.2.134.0
\fBRANON_SPECIFY_NET_TRANSLATION=\fP64.12.0.0::134.5.0.0
\fBRANON_SPECIFY_NET_TRANSLATION=\fP128.2.0.0::200.200.0.0
.fi


.SH Specific Host Address Aliasing

Ranonymize can be configured to perform specific host
address translation.  These addresses are allocated
prior to reading any data, and are removed from the
potential network address pool, regardless of the anonymization
strategy.  Feel free to list as many addresses that you would
like.

Examples would be:

\fBRANON_SPECIFY_HOST_TRANSLATION=\fP192.168.0.64::128.2.34.5


.SH Transport SAP Aliasing

Ranonymize can be configured to preserve specific ranges
of port numbers.  For convenience, ranonymize() can be
configured to preserve the IANA well known port allocation
range (0-1023), the registered ports (1024-49151) and/or
the private port range (49152 - 65535).  Also, ranonymize()
can be configured to preserve specific port numbers. These
numbers are independent of protocol type, so if port 23461
is to be preserved, it will be preserved for both tcp and udp
based flows.

.nf
\fBRANON_PRESERVE_WELLKNOWN_PORT_NUMS=\fPyes
\fBRANON_PRESERVE_REGISTERED_PORT_NUMS=\fPno
\fBRANON_PRESERVE_PRIVATE_PORT_NUMS=\fPno
.fi

.RE
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2000-2016 QoSient. All rights reserved.

.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ranonymize (1)
