.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2016 QoSient, LLC
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
.\" any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH RARC 5 "07 November 2000" "rarc 3.0.8"
.SH NAME
\fBrarc\fP \- \fBra\fP client resource file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rarc
.SH DESCRIPTION
Ra* clients will open this file if its in the users $HOME directory,
or in the $ARGUSHOME directory, and parse it to set common configuration
options.  All of these values will be overriden by options set on the
command line, or in the file specified using the '-F conffile' option.

Values can be quoted to make string denotation easier, however, the
parser does not require that string values be quoted.  To support this,
the parse will remove " (double quote) characters from input strings, so
do not use this character in strings themselves.

Values specified as "" will be treated as a NULL string, and the parser
will ignore the variable setting.

.SH RA_ARGUS_SERVER
All ra* clients can attach to a remote server, and collect argus data
in real time.  This variable can be a name or a dot notation IP address.
Optionally you can specify a port number using a ':' and then providing
the port number desired.

\fBRA_ARGUS_SERVER=\fPlocalhost:561

.SH RA_SOURCE_PORT

You can change the default source port value that will be used on remote
TCP and UDP connections, using this variable.  When you specify the
remote server using the -S option, when you don't specify a port number,
this is the port number it will use.

The default port number is 561.

\fBRA_SOURCE_PORT=\fP561


.SH PID FILE SUPPORT

Any ra* program can generate a pid file, which can be used to control the
number of instances that the system can support. 

Creating a system pid file may require priviledges that may not be inappropriate
for all cases.  By specifying \fBRA_PID_PATH\fP, you can create personal pid files
that will enforce your own policy for your own use of the ra* programs.

When configured to generate a pid file for a ra* program, if a file called
ra*.pid (where ra* is the name of the program in question) exists in the RA_PID_PATH
directory, and a program exists with a pid that matches the one contained in the
file, then the program will not start.  If the pid does not exist, then the ra* program
replaces the value in the file, with its own pid.   If a pid file does not exist,
then the ra* program will create it in the RA_PID_PATH directory, if it can.  The
end result is that the system will support only one instanace of the program, based
on name, running at a time.

The default value is to not generate a pid.  The default path for the pid file, is /var/run.

No Commandline equivalent

.nf
\fBRA_SET_PID=\fP"no"
\fBRA_PID_PATH=\fP"/var/run"
.fi



.SH RA_OUTPUT_FILE
All ra* clients can support writing output as Argus Records into
a file or stdout.  Stdout is specified as '-'.

\fBRA_OUTPUT_FILE=\fP"filename"

.SH RA_TIMERANGE
All ra* clients can support input filtering on a time range. The
format is:
.nf
     \fBtimeSpecification[-timeSpecification]\fP

where the format of a timeSpecification can be:
     [[[yy/]mm/]dd.]hh[:mm[:ss]]
     [yy/]mm/dd

\fBRA_TIMERANGE=\fP"55/12/04.00:00:01-55/12/04.23:59:59"
\fBRA_TIMERANGE=\fP"12/04-12/05"
.fi


.SH RA_RUN_TIME

All ra* clients can support running for a number of seconds,
while attached to a remote source of argus data.  This is a type
of polling.  The default is zero (0), which means run indefinately.

\fBRA_RUN_TIME\fP=0


.SH RA_PRINT_MAN_RECORDS

Specify if ra* clients should print management records by default.
This does not affect management record processing, nor down stream
management record propagation.

Commandline equivalents: -M [no]man

\fBRA_PRINT_MAN_RECORDS\fP=no
\fBRA_PRINT_EVENT_RECORDS\fP=no


.SH RA_PRINT_LABELS

Most ra* clients are designed to print argus records out in ASCII,
with each client supporting its own output formats.  For ra() like
clients, this variable will generate column headers as labels.
The number is the number of lines between repeated header labeling.
Setting this value to zero (0) will cause the labels to be printed
once.  If you don't want labels,  comment this line out, delete it
or set the value to -1.

\fBRA_PRINT_LABELS\fP=0


.SH RA_FIELD_DELIMITER

Most ra* clients are designed to print argus records out in ASCII,
with each client supporting its own output formats.  For ra() like
clients, this variable can overide the default field delimiter,
which are variable spans of space (' '), to be any character.
The most common are expected to be '\t' for tabs, and ',' for
comma separated fields.

\fBRA_FIELD_DELIMITER=\fP','


.SH RA_PRINT_NAMES

For \fBra(1)\fP like clients, this variable will control the
translation of various numbers to names, such as address hostnames, 
port service names and/or protocol names.  There can be a huge
performance impact with name lookup, so the default is to not
resolve hostnames.

\fBRA_PRINT_NAMES=\fPport

Other valid options are \fPnone\fP to print no names, \fPproto\fP
to translate the protocol names, \fPport\fP to translate 
port names, and \fPall\fP to translate all the fields.  An
invalid option will default to \fPport\fP, silently.


.SH RA_CIDR_ADDRESS_FORMAT

Use this variable to specify whether \fBra()\fP clients, when printing
numeric IP addresses, will print them as CIDR addresses, or not.  CIDR
notation is constructed from the IP address and the prefix size, the latter
being the number of leading 1 bits of the routing prefix. The IP address is
expressed according to the standards of IPv4 or IPv6. It is followed by a
separator character, the forward slash (/) character, and the prefix size
expressed as a decimal number.
 
Argus IPv4 data contains the CIDR mask length, when its less than 32,
and ra* programs will by default provides the "/masklen" suffix when
the mask is less than 32.
 
This maybe confusing for some data processors, which would rather not see
the "/masklen" never, or all the time.  Use this option to specify
changes in the default printing stratgy.
 
Accepatable values for this variable are:
    "no"     -  do not provide the CIDR mask length (legacy mode) [default]
    "yes"    -  print CIDR mask length when less than 32
    "strict" -  always print CIDR mask length

\fBRA_CIDR_ADDRESS_FORMAT=\fP"no"


.SH RA_ASN_PRINT_FORMAT

All ra() clients can print and process AS Numbers that have been
added to the records through metadata labeling, or were a part of
the original Netflow to argus conversion process..

RFC 5396 specifies 3 formats for representing AS Numbers, and all 3 are
acceptable formats. These format are:
    "asplain" - 2 and 4-byte ASNs are printed as decimal integers.
    "asdot+"  - 2 and 4-byte ASNs are printed using a dot notation.
    "asdot"   - 2 byte ASNs are printed as decimal, and 4-byte ASNs
                are printed using a dotted notation..

The default is 'asplain'.

No Commandline equivalent

\fBRA_ASN_PRINT_FORMAT=\fP"asplain"


.SH RA_PRINT_RESPONSE_DATA

For ra() like clients, this variable will include the response
data that is provided by Argus.  This is protocol and state
specific.

\fBRA_PRINT_RESPONSE_DATA=\fPno

.SH RA_PRINT_UNIX_TIME

For ra() like clients, this variable will force the timestamp
to be in Unix time format, which is an integer representing the
number of elapsed seconds since the epoch.

\fBRA_PRINT_UNIX_TIME\fP=no


.SH RA_TIME_FORMAT

For ra() like clients, the format that is used to print
timestamps, is based on the strftime() library call, with
an extension to print fractions of a sec using "%f".  The
default is "%T.%f".  You can overide this default time
format by setting this variable.  This string must conform
to the format specified in strftime().  Malformed strings can
generate interesting output, so be aware with this one, and
don't forget the '.' when doing fractions of a second.

\fBRA_TIME_FORMAT=\fP"%T.%f"


.SH RA_TZ

The timezone used for timestamps is specified by the
tzset() library routines, and is normally specified by
factors such as the TZ environment variable found on
most machines.  You can override the TZ environment variable
by specifying a time zone using this variable.  The format
of this string must conform to the format specified by
tzset(3).

.nf
\fBRA_TZ=\fP"EST5EDT4,M3.2.0/02,M11.1.0/02"
\fBRA_TZ=\fP"PST8PDT"
.fi


.SH RA_USEC_PRECISION

For ra() like clients, this variable is used to override the
time format of the timestamp.  This variable specifies the
number of decimal places that will be printed as the fractional
part of the time.  Argus collects usec precision, and so a
maximum value of 6 is supported.  To not print the fractional
part, specify the value zero (0).

\fBRA_USEC_PRECISION=\fP6


.SH RA_USERDATA_ENCODE

Argus can capture user data, and the argus clients can print, merge,
filter, and strip user data from argus records.  When printing out
the user data contents, using tools such as ra.1, the type of encoding
used to print the buffers can be specified here. This is available
because many user data buffers are not printable text, and other
representations may be more appropriate.

Supported values are "Ascii", "Obfuscate", "Hex", "Encode32" or "Encode64".
The default is "Ascii".

Obfuscate is an extension to the Ascii print, that attempts to
over-write plain text passwords, encountered in the user data,
with 'x's.

Commandline equivalent: -M printer=<printer>

\fBRA_USERDATA_ENCODE=\fPAscii


.SH RA_FILTER

You can provide a filter expression here, if you like.
It should be limited to 2K in length.  The default is to
not filter.  See ra(1) for the format of the filter expression.

\fBRA_FILTER=\fP""


.SH RA_FILTER_TIMEOUT

The filter is compiled in a separate process, and all ra* programs
need to wait a reasonable time for the filter compiler to finish,
or time out and return an error, in the case of a fatal error in
compiling.  Many systems are very busy, and could benefit from a
prolonged wait period, however, this timeout value could generate
a significant startup wait state for programs that have poor filter
specifications, if the timer is too long.

The current default is 1.5 seconds, but you can set this to any
amount of time.

No Commandline equivalent

\fBRA_FILTER_TIMEOUT=\fP1.5


.SH SASL SUPPPORT
When argus is compiled with SASL support, ra* clients may be
required to authenticate to the argus server before the argus
will accept the connection.  This variable will allow one to
set the user and authorization id's, if needed.  Although
not the best practice, you can provide a password through the
RA_AUTH_PASS variable.  If you do this, you should protect
the contents of this file.  The format for this variable is:
 
.nf
\fBRA_USER_AUTH=\fP"user_id/authorization_id"
\fBRA_AUTH_PASS=\fP"password"
.fi


The clients can specify a part of the negotiation of the
security policy that argus uses. This is controlled through
the use of a minimum and maximum allowable protection
strength values.  Set these variable to control this policy.

.nf
\fBRA_MIN_SSF=\fP0
\fBRA_MAX_SSF=\fP128
.fi


.SH RA_DEBUG_LEVEL

If compiled to support this option, ra* clients are capable
of generating a lot of use [full | less | whatever] debug
information.  The default value is zero (0).

.nf
\fBRA_DEBUG_LEVEL=\fP0
.fi


.SH RA_CONNECT_TIME

Some ra style clients use a non-blocking method to connect to
remote data sources, so the user many need to control how long
to wait if a remote source doesn't respond.  This variable sets
the number of seconds to wait.  This number should be set to
a reasonable value (5 < value < 60).  The default value is
10 seconds.

.nf
\fBRA_CONNECT_TIME=\fP10
.fi

.SH RA_SORT_ALGORITHMS

Many ra* programs sort records as a part of their function.
Programs like rasort.1, providing explicit command-line options
to specify the sort algorithms and their order, using the
'-m field [field ...]' option.

Use this configuration directive to specify the default sorting
algorithm table for your ra* programs.  The default sort algorithm
is record start time "stime".

.nf
\fBRA_SORT_ALGORITHMS=\fP"stime "
.fi


.SH RA_TIMEOUT_INTERVAL

Some ra* clients have a timeout based function.  Ratop, as an
example, times out flows and removes them from  screen at a fixed
interval.  This variable can be set using the RA_TIMEOUT_INTERVAL
variable, which is a float in seconds. 60.0 seconds is the default.

.nf
\fBRA_TIMEOUT_INTERVAL=\fP60.0
.fi


.SH RA_UPDATE_INTERVAL

Some ra* clients have an interval based function.  Ratop, as an
example, can refresh the screen at a fixed interval.  This variable
can be set using the RA_UPDATE_INTERVAL variable, which is a
float in seconds.  0.5 seconds is the default.

.nf
\fBRA_UPDATE_INTERVAL=\fP0.5
.fi


.SH RA_PRINT_ETHERNET_VENDORS

All ra* clients have the ability to print vendor names for the
vendor part of ethernet addresses that are in flow records.
ra* programs get its strings for the ethernet vendors using
Wireshark 'manuf' files. One is provided with the distribution,
and installed into /usr/local/argus.

No Commandline equivalent

.nf
\fBRA_PRINT_ETHERNET_VENDORS=\fP"no"
\fBRA_ETHERNET_VENDORS=\fP"/usr/local/argus/wireshark.manuf.txt"

.SH RA_DELEGATED_IP

All ra* clients have the ability to print country codes for the
IP addresses that are in a flow record.  Country codes are
generated from the ARIN delegated address space files.  Specify
the location of your DELEGATED_IP file here.

No Commandline equivalent

.nf
\fBRA_DELEGATED_IP=\fP"/usr/local/argus/delegated-ipv4-latest"
.fi


.SH RA_RELIABLE_CONNECT

All ra* clients can reliably connect to remote data sources.
This causes the ra* program to try to reconnect to lost remote
sources every 5 seconds, indefinately. This causes ra* program
to not terminate but retry connection attempts when they fail.

This feature is implemented using threads, and so threads
support must be compiled in.

No Commandline equivalent

.nf
\fBRA_RELIABLE_CONNECT=\fPno
.fi


.SH MYSQL SUPPORT

Many ra* clients can connect and use a MySQL database, either
reading for writing.  This may require references to remotes
database hosts, databases, tables, and mysql account names
and passwords.

Default values for these variables can be set here.
support must be compiled in.

Commandline equivalents:
  -r mysql://[username[:password]@]hostname[:port]/database/tablename
  -w mysql://[username[:password]@]hostname[:port]/database/tablename
  -u username:password

.nf
\fBRA_DATABASE=\fP"argus"
\fBRA_DB_TABLE=\fP"table"
\fBRA_DB_USER=\fP"carter"
\fBRA_DB_PASS=\fP"whatever"
.fi


Those ra* clients that can create database tables may need to
specify a table type or rather, a database engine other than the
defaul, MyISAM.

Commandline equivalents:
  -M mysql_engine=tableType
     Current tableTypes are
        MyISAM
        InnoDB
        Merge
        Memory
        Archive
        NDB
        Federated
        CSV

.nf
\fBMYSQL_DB_ENGINE=\fP"MyISAM"
.fi


.SH COLOR SUPPORT


For ra* programs that use curses, these variables defined color schemes
and color assignments.
 
Argus uses a sixteen color palette, with 8 monotone and 8 accent colors,
plus 16 colors of gray. Currently these color values are hard coded.
New versions should allow you to provide color definitions for all internal
values using a 256 Xterm color wheel, to assign foreground and background
colors. But we're not there yet

.nf
\fBRA_COLOR_SUPPORT=\fP"yes"
\fBRA_COLOR_CONFIG=\fP"/usr/carter/.racolor.conf"
.fi


.SH DIRECTION SUPPORT

Many ra* clients process flow records based on source and destination
properties.  TCP and UDP ports values can be used to assign direction,
and are best used for well-known ports (< 1024), values that
are in the /etc/services defintions, and the reserved ports (> 1023, < 49151).

The syntax is:
    RA_PORT_DIRECTION="services"
    RA_PORT_DIRECTION="services,wellknown"
    RA_PORT_DIRECTION="services,wellknown,registered"

We recommend the wellknown and services options, as they are a bit more
discriminating.  If there are ports that you know are services that are in
the registered port range, we suggest that you add them to your /etc/services
file rather than include the registered port range; only because the
registered range is so large. However, this option is applied only to
flow in which the direction is ambiguous, and as such, corrections based
on the logic should have minimum effect on analytics.

.nf
\fBRA_PORT_DIRECTION=\fP"services,wellknown"

.fi


Sites use locality for a number of features, such as  access control,
and this support is intended to support visualization, and analytics.

Currently, you can identify a collection of IP addresses that represent RA_LOCAL,
and are specified using an iana-address-file formatted file.  (See ralabel.conf)

.nf
\fBRA_LOCAL=\fP"/usr/local/argus/local.addrs"

.fi

When locality information is available, programs like ra(), and
as the assignement of source when there is ambiguity in the
flow record as to who is the actual initiator or receiver of the flow.

When locality information is available, programs like ra(), and
ratop() can use that information to make display decisions, such

RA_LOCAL_DIRECTION provides the logic for using the locality
information to assign flow direction.  You can force the local
address to be either the source (src) or the destination (dst).

The syntax is:
    RA_LOCAL_DIRECTION="local:src"
    RA_LOCAL_DIRECTION="local:dst"

.nf
\fBRA_LOCAL_DIRECTION="suggest:src"
\fBRA_LOCAL_DIRECTION="force:src
.fi

.RE
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2000-2016 QoSient. All rights reserved.
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ra (1)


