.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2016 QoSient, LLC
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
.\" any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\" 
.
.de TQ
.  br
.  ns
.  TP \\$1
..
.TH RA 1 "12 November 2007" "ra 3.0.8"
.SH NAME
\fBra\fP \- read \fBargus(8)\fP data.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBra [\fBraoptions\fP] [\fB--\fP \fIfilter-expression\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "ra command"  ""  "\fLra\fP \(em argus data"
.LP
.B Ra
reads
.BR argus(8)
data from either \fIstdin\fP, an \fIargus-file\fP, or from a
remote data source, which can either be an \fIargus-server\fP, 
or a netflow data server, filters the records it encounters
based on an optional \fIfilter-expression\fP and either prints
the contents of the
.BR argus(5)
records that it encounters to \fBstdout\fP or appends them into an
.B argus(5)
datafile.
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 4 4
.B \-A
Print aggregate statistics for the input stream on termination.
.TP 4 4
.B \-b
Dump the compiled transaction-matching code to standard output and stop.
This is useful for debugging filter expressions.
.TP 4 4
.B \-c <char>
Specify a delimiter character for output columns (default is ' ').
.TP 4 4
.B \-C <[host]:portnum>      (deprecated)
Specify a source of Netflow data. The optional host is the local
interface address where Netflow Cisco records are going to be read.
If absent, then it is implied that the interface address is AF_ANY.
This option is deprecated and the '-S cisco://address:port' is now the
recommended option.
.TP 4 4
.B \-D <level>
Print debug information corresponding to \fB<level>\fP to stderr, if program
compiled to support debug printing.  As the level increases, so does the
amount of debug information
.B ra(1)
will print.  Values range from 1-8.
.TP 4 4
.B \-d
Toggle whether to run this program as a daemon.
.TP 4 4
.B \-e <regex>
Match regular expression in flow user data fields.  Prepend the regex with
either "s:" or "d:" to limit the match to either the source or destination
user data fields. At this time null bytes in the user data buffer terminate 
search.  Examples include:
.nf
   "^SSH-"           - Look for ssh connections on any port.
   "s:^GET"          - Look for HTTP GET requests in the source buffer.
   "d:^HTTP.*Unauth" - Find unauthorized http response.
.fi

Depending on the regular expression library that the system supports,
you will be able to match many types of binary, octal and hex 
expressions.  See regex.3, pcre.3 and the web for examples.

.TP 4 4
.B \-E <file>
When using a filter expression at the end of the command, this option will
cause
.B ra(1)
to append the records that are rejected by the filter into
.B <file>
.TP 4 4
.B \-F <conffile>
Use \fB<conffile>\fP as a source of configuration information.  The format of
this file is identical to \fBrarc(5)\fP.  The data read from \fB<conffile>\fP
overrides any prior configuration information.
.TP 4 4
.B \-h
Print an explanation of all the arguments. 
.TP 4 4
.B \-H
Abbreviate numeric metrics, to make reading large values easier.  Use the \fB-p <num>\fP
option to specify the precision right of the decimal.

.TP 4 4
.B \-L <n>
Specify how \fBra\fP will print header labels for the output.
.nf
   Supported values are:
      -1  Don't print header labels.
       0  Print the header labels only once, as the beginning of output.
     > 0  Print the header labels every \fIn\fP lines of output.

.TP 4 4
.B \-M <mode [mode ...]>
Provide addition mode operators.  These are generally specific to the
individual ra* program, or a specific function. Available modes for ra()
are:

.nf
   disa             - interpret DSCodepoints using the US DISA encodings
   dsrs=dsrlist     - process these dsrs
      Where a dsrlist has the format:
         [+/-]dsr[,[+/-]dsr]
 
         Supported dsrs are:
           trans    transport information, such as source id and seq number.
           flow     flow key data (proto, saddr, sport, dir, daddr, dport)
           time     time stamp fields (stime, ltime).
           metric   basic ([s|d]bytes, [s|d]pkts, [s|d]rate, [s|d]load)
           agr      aggregation stats (trans, avgdur, mindur, maxdur, stdev).
           net      network objects (tcp, esp, rtp, icmp data).
           vlan     VLAN tag data
           mpls     MPLS label data
           jitter   Jitter data ([s|d]jit, [s|d]intpkt)
           ipattr   IP attributes ([s|d]ipid, [s|d]tos, [s|d]dsb, [s|d]ttl)
           psize    packet size information
           mac      MAC addresses (smac, dmac)
           icmp     ICMP specific data (icmpmap, inode)
           encaps   Flow encapsulation type indications
           behavior Behavioral metrics and data
           tadj     Time adjustment data
           cor      Multi-probe correlation data
           cocode   Country Codes
           asn      Autonomous System Number data
           suser    src user captured data bytes (suser)
           duser    dst captured user data bytes (duser)
 
      Examples are:
         -M dsrs=time,flow,metric
         -M dsrs=-suser,-duser

   label="regex"    - match flow label with regex(3) regular expression.
   man              - print management records
   noman            - do not print management records
   oui              - print oui labels in mac addresses

   printer="format" - specify printer formats for printing user data.
      Supported formats are:
           ascii      print user buffer as ascii string. use '.' for unprintable chars.
           obfuscate  ascii printer with password obfuscation.
           hex        print hex dump of user buffer on separate lines.
           encode32   print user buffer as 32-bit chars.
           encode64   print user buffer using 64-bit chars.

   poll             - successfully attach to remote data source and then exit
   rmon             - modify data to support unidiretional RMON stat reporting
   rtime:factor     - read data from a file, clocking records in as if they
                      being read in realtime.  Factor provides an opportunity
                      to specify a multiplication factor, enabling you to
                      read records in a fraction of real time, slowing down
                      reading considerably, or a factor of time, enabling
                      controlled speedup of the reading rate.

   saslmech="mech"  - specify a mandatory SASL mech
   sql="select"     - use "select" as select clause in mysql calls when supported.
   TZ="tzset"       - specify a tzset(3) time zone specification
   uni              - generate unidirectional flow data
   xml              - print output in xml format.

.fi
Illegal modes are not detectable by the standard library, and so unexpected
results in command line parsing may occur if care is not taken with use
of this option.
.TP 4 4
.B \-n
Modify number to name converstion.  This flag supports 4 states, specified
by the modulus of the number of -n flags set.  By default ra* programs do
not provide hostname lookups, but they do lookup port and protocol names.
The first \fB-n\fP will suppress port number to service conversion, \fB-nn\fP
will suppress translation of protocol numbers to names (no lookups).  \fB-nnn\fP
will return you to full conversion, translating hostnames, port and protocol
names, and \fB-nnnn\fP will return you to the default behavior.   Because this
indicator can be set in the .rarc file, multiple \fB-n\fP flags progress through
the cycle.
.TP 4 
.B \-N [io]<num>, [io]<start-end>, [io]<start+num>
Process the first \fB<num>\fP records, the inclusive range \fB<start - end>\fP,
or process <num + 1> records starting at index number \fB<start>\fP.  The
optional 1st character indicates whether the specification is applied to the input
or the output stream of records, the default is input.  If applied to the input,
these are the range of records that match the input filter.
.TP 4 4
.B \-p <digits>
Print \fB<digits>\fP number of units of precision for floating point values.
.TP 4 4
.B \-q
Run in quiet mode. Configure Ra to not print out the contents of records.
This can be used for a number of maintenance tasks, where you would be
interested in the outcome of a program, or its progress, say with the -D
option, without printing each input record.
.TP 4 4
.B \-r [- | <[type:]file[::soffset[:eoffset]] ...>]
Read \fB<type>\fP data from \fB<files>\fP in the order presented on the
commandline. '\fB\-\fP' denotes stdin.  Ra supports reading \fBargus\fP
type data (default), \fBcisco\fP and \fBft\fP, flow-tools type data.  If you want to read a set of
files and then, when done, read stdin, use multiple occurences of
the \fI-r\fP option.  Ra can read \fBgzip(1)\fP, \fBbzip2(1)\fP, \fBxz(1)\fP and 
\fBcompress(1)\fP compressed data files. Byte offset values allow
the specification of a range of records within an uncompressed file.
Byte offsets must be aligned to record boundaries. Valid record
offsets can be obtained using +offset as an output field even from compressed files.

Examples are:
.nf
   -r file1 file2              read argus records from file1, then file2.
   -r file::34876              read argus records starting at byte offset 34876 
   -r file::34876:35846        read argus records starting at byte offset 34876 and ending at 35846 
   -r cisco:file               read cisco netflow records from file
   -r ft:file                  read flow-tools based records
.fi

.TP 4 4
.B \-R <dir dir ...>
Recursively decend the directory and process all the regular
files that are encountered.  The function does not decend to links, or
directories that begin with '.'.  The feature, like the -r command,
does not do any file type checking.
.TP 4 4
.B \-s <[-][[+[#]]field[:len[:format]] ...>
Specify the \fBfields\fP to print.  \fBra.1\fP gets the field print list
either from its rarc configuration files or from the command-line.
In the case where there is no configuration given \fBra.1\fP uses a
default printing field list, with default field lengths.  By specifying a space
separated list of fields, this option provides a means to completely redefine
the list from the command line.  Using the optional '-' and '+[#]' prepended
to the field list, you can add or subtract fields from the configured list.  
Field lengths are hard constraints, and field output that exceeds the field
length will be truncated, and a '*' will be inserted as the last character.
When you see this, add more to the length specification for that specific field.
Field lengths (len) less than 1, are not permitted and will generate an error.
The optional 'format' specification, uses \fBsprintf.1\fP syntax to format the value.
The available fields to print are:

.PD 0
.RS
.TP 12
.B srcid
argus source identifier.
.TP
.B rank
Ordinal value of this output flow record i.e. sequence number.
.TP
.B stime
record start time
.TP
.B ltime
record last time.
.TP
.B trans
aggregation record count.
.TP
.B flgs
flow state flags seen in transaction.
.TP
.B seq
argus sequence number.
.TP
.B dur
record total duration.
.TP
.B runtime
total active flow run time.  This value is generated through aggregation, and is the sum of the records duration.
.TP
.B idle
time since the last packet activity.  This value is useful in real-time processing, and is the current time - last time.
.TP
.B mean
average duration of aggregated records.
.TP
.B stddev
standard deviation of aggregated duration times.
.TP
.B sum
total accumulated durations of aggregated records.
.TP
.B min
minimum duration of aggregated records.
.TP
.B max
maximum duration of aggregated records.
.TP
.B smac
source MAC addr.
.TP
.B dmac
destination MAC addr.
.TP
.B soui
oui portion of the source MAC addr.
.TP
.B doui
oui portion of the destination MAC addr.
.TP
.B saddr
source IP addr.
.TP
.B daddr
destination IP addr.
.TP
.B proto
transaction protocol.
.TP
.B sport
source port number.
.TP
.B dport
destination port number.
.TP
.B stos
source TOS byte value.
.TP
.B dtos
destination TOS byte value.
.TP
.B sdsb
source diff serve byte value.
.TP
.B ddsb
destination diff serve byte value.
.TP
.B sco
source IP address country code.
.TP
.B dco
destination IP address country code.
.TP
.B sttl
src -> dst TTL value.
.TP
.B dttl
dst -> src TTL value.
.TP
.B shops
estimate of number of IP hops from src to this point.
.TP
.B dhops
estimate of number of IP hops from dst to this point.
.TP
.B sipid
source IP identifier.
.TP
.B dipid
destination IP identifier.
.TP
.B smpls
source MPLS identifier.
.TP
.B dmpls
destination MPLS identifier.
.TP
.B autoid
Auto generated identifier (mysql).
.TP
.B sas
Src origin AS
.TP
.B das
Dst origin AS
.TP
.B ias
Intermediate origin AS, AS of ICMP generator
.TP
.B cause
Argus record cause code.  Valid values are Start, Status, Stop, Close, Error
.TP
.B nstroke
Number of observed keystrokes.
.TP
.B snstroke
Number of observed keystrokes from initiator (src) to target (dst).
.TP
.B dnstroke
Number of observed keystrokes from target (dst) to initiator (src).
.TP
.B pkts
total transaction packet count.
.TP
.B spkts
src -> dst packet count.
.TP
.B dpkts
dst -> src packet count.
.TP
.B bytes
total transaction bytes.
.TP
.B sbytes
src -> dst transaction bytes.
.TP
.B dbytes
dst -> src transaction bytes.
.TP
.B appbytes
total application bytes.
.TP
.B sappbytes
src -> dst application bytes.
.TP
.B dappbytes
dst -> src application bytes.
.TP
.B pcr
producer consumer  ratio.
.TP
.B load
bits per second.
.TP
.B sload
source bits per second.
.TP
.B dload
destination bits per second.
.TP
.B loss
pkts retransmitted or dropped.
.TP
.B sloss
source pkts retransmitted or dropped.
.TP
.B dloss
destination pkts retransmitted or dropped.
.TP
.B ploss
percent pkts retransmitted or dropped.
.TP
.B psloss
percent source pkts retransmitted or dropped.
.TP
.B pdloss
percent destination pkts retransmitted or dropped.
.TP
.B retrans
pkts retransmitted.
.TP
.B sretrans
source pkts retransmitted.
.TP
.B dretrans
destination pkts retransmitted.
.TP
.B pretrans
percent pkts retransmitted.
.TP
.B psretrans
percent source pkts retransmitted.
.TP
.B pdretrans
percent destination pkts retransmitted.
.TP
.B sgap
source bytes missing in the data stream. Available after argus-3.0.4
.TP
.B dgap
destination bytes missing in the data stream. Available after argus-3.0.4
.TP
.B rate
pkts per second.
.TP
.B srate
source pkts per second.
.TP
.B drate
destination pkts per second.
.TP
.B dir
direction of transaction
.TP
.B sintpkt
source interpacket arrival time (mSec)
.TP
.B sintdist
source interpacket arrival time distribution
.TP
.B sintpktact
source active interpacket arrival time (mSec)
.TP
.B sintdistact
source active interpacket arrival time (mSec)
.TP
.B sintpktidl
source idle interpacket arrival time (mSec)
.TP
.B sintdistidl
source idle interpacket arrival time (mSec)
.TP
.B dintpkt
destination interpacket arrival time (mSec)
.TP
.B dintdist
destination interpacket arrival time distribution
.TP
.B dintpktact
destination active interpacket arrival time (mSec)
.TP
.B dintdistact
destination active interpacket arrival time distribution (mSec)
.TP
.B dintpktidl
destination idle interpacket arrival time (mSec)
.TP
.B dintdistidl
destination idle interpacket arrival time distribution
.TP
.B sjit
source jitter (mSec).
.TP
.B sjitact
source active jitter (mSec).
.TP
.B sjitidle
source idle jitter (mSec).
.TP
.B djit
destination jitter (mSec).
.TP
.B djitact
destination active jitter (mSec).
.TP
.B djitidle
destination idle jitter (mSec).
.TP
.B state
transaction state
.TP
.B label
Metadata label.
.TP
.B suser
source user data buffer.
.TP
.B duser
destination user data buffer.
.TP
.B swin
source TCP window advertisement.
.TP
.B dwin
destination TCP window advertisement.
.TP
.B svlan
source VLAN identifier.
.TP
.B dvlan
destination VLAN identifier.
.TP
.B svid
source VLAN identifier.
.TP
.B dvid
destination VLAN identifier.
.TP
.B svpri
source VLAN priority.
.TP
.B dvpri
destination VLAN priority.
.TP
.B srng
start time for the filter timerange.
.TP
.B erng
end time for the filter timerange.
.TP
.B stcpb
source TCP base sequence number
.TP
.B dtcpb
destination TCP base sequence number
.TP
.B tcprtt
TCP connection setup round-trip time, the sum of 'synack' and 'ackdat'.
.TP
.B synack
TCP connection setup time, the time between the SYN and the SYN_ACK packets.
.TP
.B ackdat
TCP connection setup time, the time between the SYN_ACK and the ACK packets.
.TP
.B tcpopt
The TCP connection options seen at initiation.  The \fItcpopt\fP indicator
consists of a fixed length field, that reports presence of any of the 
TCP options that argus tracks
The format is:
.nf
.sp .5

 M            -  Maxiumum Segment Size
  w           -  Window Scale 
   s          -  Selective ACK OK
    S         -  Selective ACK
     e        -  TCP Echo
      E       -  TCP Echo Reply
       T      -  TCP Timestamp
        c     -  TCP CC
         N    -  TCP CC New
          O   -  TCP CC Echo 
           S  -  Source Explicit Congestion Notification
            D -  Destination Explicit Congestion Notification

.TP
.B inode
ICMP intermediate node.
.TP
.B offset
record byte offset in file or stream.
.TP
.B smeansz
Mean of the flow packet size transmitted by the src (initiator).
.TP
.B dmeansz
Mean of the flow packet size transmitted by the dst (target).

.TP
.B spktsz
histogram for the src packet size distribution
.TP
.B smaxsz
maximum packet size for traffic transmitted by the src.
.TP
.B dpktsz
histogram for the dst packet size distribution
.TP
.B dmaxsz
maximum packet size for traffic transmitted by the dst.
.TP
.B sminsz
minimum packet size for traffic transmitted by the src.
.TP
.B dminsz
minimum packet size for traffic transmitted by the dst.

.TP
.B dminsz
minimum packet size for traffic transmitted by the dst.
.PD 1
.RE
.RS

Examles are:
.nf
   -s saddr      print only the source address.
   -s -bytes     removes the bytes field from list.
   -s +2srcid    adds the source identifier as the 2nd field.
   -s spkts:18   prints src pkt count with a column width of 18.
   -s smpls      print the local mpls label in the flow.
.fi
.RE
.TP 4 4
.B \-S <[URI://][user[:pass]@]host[:portnum]>
Specify a remote source of flow data. 
Read flow data from various data format and transport strategies, using the URI format
to indicate the type of flow data record of interest (argus-tcp, argus-udp, cisco,
jflow, sflow) and the source, as a name or an addresss, providing an option user and
password for protected access.  Use the optional ':portnum' to specify a port number
other than the default; 561. 

Examles are:
.nf
   -S localhost                 request remote argus records from localhost, using default methods.
   -S user@localhost            request argus records from localhost, as 'user'.
   -S user:pass@localhost       request argus records from localhost, as 'user', with 'pass' password.
   -S 192.168.0.4:12345         request via TCP argus records from 192.168.0.4, port 12345.
   -S argus://user@anubis       request argus records from anubis, via TCP port 561, as 'user'.
   -S argus-tcp://thoth:12345   request argus records via TCP from thoth, port 12345.
   -S argus-udp://set:12345     request argus records via UDP from set, port 12345.
   -S cisco://any:9996          read cisco netflow records from AF_ANY, on port 9996.
   -S jflow://10.0.0.2:9898     read jflow records sent to 10.0.0.2, on port 9898.
   -S sflow://localhost:6343    read sflow records sent to localhost interface, port 6343.
.fi

.TP 4 4
.B \-t <timerange>
Specify the \fB<time range>\fP for matching \fBargus(5)\fP records. This
option supports a high degree of flexibility in specifing explicit and
relative time ranges with support for time field wildcarding.

The syntax for the \fB<time range>\fP is:
.nf
[timeComparisonInd]timeSpecification[-timeSpecification]
   timeComparisonInd: [x]i | n | c    (default = i)
     x  negation   reverses the result of the time comparison
     i  intersects match records that were active during this time period
     n  includes   match records that start before and end after the period
     c  contained  match records that start and end during the period

   timeSpecification: [[[yyyy/]mm/]dd.]HH[:MM[:SS]]
                        [yyyy/]mm/dd
                        yyyy
                        %d{ymdHMS}
                        seconds
                        { + | - }%d{ymdHMS}

   where '*' can be used as a wildcard.

.fi
Examples are:
.nf
   -t 14              specify the time range 2pm-3pm for today
   -t 15-23           specify the time range 3pm-11pm for today
   -t 2011            all records in the year 2011
   -t 2011/08         all records in Aug of the year 2011
   -t 2011/08-2011/10 all records in Aug, Sept, and Oct of the year 2011

   -t **.14           specify 2pm-3pm, every day this month
   -t 1270616652+2s   all records that span 10/04/07.01:04:12 EDT.
   -t 1999y1m23d10h   matches 10-11am on Jan, 23, 1999
   -t 10d*h*m15s      matches records that intersect the 15 sec,
                      any minute, any hour, on the 10th of this month
   -t ****/11/23      all records in Nov 23rd, any year
   -t 23.11:10-14     11:10:00 - 2pm on the 23rd of this month
   -t -10m            matches 10 minutes before, to the present
   -t -1M+1d          matches the first day of the this month.
   -t -2h5m+5m        matches records that start before and end
                      after the range starting 2 hours 5 minutes
                      prior to the present, and lasting 5 minutes.

.fi
Time is compared using basic intersection operations.  A record
\fBi\Pntersects a specified time range if there is any intersection
between the time range of the record and the comparison time range.
This is the default behavior.  A record \fBi\fPncludes the comparison
time range if the intersection of the two ranges equals the 
comparison time, and a record is \fBc\fPontained when the intersection
equals the duration of the record.  The comparison indicator is the
first character of the range specification, without spaces.

Examples are:
.nf
   -t n14:10:15-14:10:19  records include these 4s.
   -t c14:10-14:10:10     record starts and ends within these 10s.
   -t xi-5s+25s           record starts or ends 5 seconds earlier and
                          20 seconds after 'now'.
.fi

.TP 4 4
.B \-T <secs>
Read \fBargus(5)\fP from remote server for \fB<secs>\fP of time.
.TP 4 4
.B \-u
Print time values using Unix time format (seconds from the Epoch).
.TP 4 4
.B \-w <file> [filter-expression]
Append matching data to \fB<file>\fP, in
.B argus
file format. An \fIoutput-file\fP of '-' directs 
.B ra
to write the \fBargus(5)\fP records to stdout, allowing for "chaining"
.B ra*
style commands together.  The optional filter-expression can be used
to select specific output.
.TP 4 4
.B \-X
Resets all options to their default values and overrides the rarc file contents (Use as the first option.)
.TP 4 4
.B \-z
Modify status field to represent TCP state changes. The values of the
status field when this is enabled are:
.nf
  's' - Syn Transmitted
  'S' - Syn Acknowledged
  'E' - TCP Established
  'f' - Fin Transmitted  (FIN Wait State 1)
  'F' - Fin Acknowledged (FIN Wait State 2)
  'R' - TCP Reset
.fi
.TP 4 4
.B \-Z <s|d|b>
Modify status field to reprsent actual TCP flag values. <'s'rc | 'd'st | 'b'oth>.
The characters that can be present in the status field when this is enabled are:

.nf
  'F' - Fin
  'S' - Syn
  'R' - Reset
  'P' - Push
  'A' - Ack
  'U' - Urgent Pointer
  '7' - Undefined 7th bit set
  '8' - Undefined 8th bit set
.fi

.SH RETURN VALUES
\fBra\fP exits with one of the following values:
.nf

   0  Records matched condition, considering the options provided.  

   1  No records matched the condition, or the source was not an argus stream.

 > 1  An error occurred.
.fi

.SH FILTER EXPRESSION
If arguments remain after option processing, the collection is
interpreted as a single filter \fBexpression\fP.  In order to indicate
the end of arguments, a '\-\-' (double dash) is required before the
filter expression is added to the command line.  Historically, a '\-'
(single dash) was used to separate the filter \fBexpression\fP from the
command line options, but newer versions of \fBgetopt.1\fP now require
the '\-\-' (double dash).


The filter expression specifies which \fBargus(5)\fP records will
be selected for processing.  If no \fIexpression\fP is given, all
records are selected, otherwise, only those records for which
\fIexpression\fP is `true' will be printed.

The syntax is very similar to the expression syntax for \fBtcpdump(1)\fP,
as the tcpdump compiler was a starting point for the \fBargus(5)\fP filter
expression compiler.  However, the semantics for \fBtcpdump(1)'s\fP packet
filter expressions are different when applied to transaction record
filtering, so there are some major differences.

When attached to a remote argus, \fBra\fP will send the filter to the argus
process, which compiles the filter, and uses it to select which argus
records will be transmitted to the \fBra\fP application.  If you do not
want to send a filter to the remote argus, prepend the filter with the
keyword "local", to indicate that the filtering will be done within the
local \fBra\fP process.

.LP
The \fIexpression\fP consists of one or more
.I primitives.
Primitives usually consist of an
.I id
(name or number) preceded by one or more qualifiers.  There are three
different kinds of qualifier:
.IP \fItype\fP
qualifiers say what kind of thing the id name or number refers to.
Possible types are
.BR srcid,
.BR encaps,
.BR ether,
.BR host,
.BR net,
.BR co,
.BR port,
.BR tos,
.BR ttl,
.BR ptks,
.BR bytes,
.BR appbytes,
.BR pcr,
.BR data,
.BR rate,
.BR load,
.BR loss,
.BR ploss,
.BR vid,
.BR vpri,
and
.BR mid.

E.g., `srcid isis`, `encaps gre', `host sphynx', `net 192.168.0.0/16', `port domain', `ttl 1', 'ptks gt 2', 'ploss lt 5'.
If there is no type qualifier,
.B host
is assumed.
.IP \fIdir\fP
qualifiers specify a particular transfer direction to and/or from
.I an id.
Possible directions are
.BR src ,
.BR dst ,
.B "src or dst"
and
.BR "src and dst" .
E.g., `src sphynx', `dst net 192.168.0.0/24', `src or dst port ftp',
`src and dst tos 0x0a', `src or dst vid 0x12`, `dst vpri 0x02` .
If there is no dir qualifier,
.B "src or dst"
is assumed.
.IP \fIproto\fP
qualifiers restrict the match to a particular protocol.  Possible
values are those specified in the \fB/etc/protocols\fP system file
and a small number of extensions, (that should be defined
but aren't).  Specific extended values are
.BR 'ipv4' ,
(to specify just ip version 4), in contrast to the defined proto
.BR 'ipv6' .
The defined proto
.BR 'ip' 
reduces to the filter 'ipv4 or ipv6'.

When preceeded by \fIether\fP, the protocol names and numbers that
are valid are specified in ./include/ethernames.h.
.LP
In addition to the above, there are some special `primitive' keywords
that don't follow the pattern:
.BR gateway ,
.BR multicast ,
and
.BR broadcast .
All of these are described below.
.LP
More complex filter expressions are built up by using the words
.BR and ,
.B or
and
.B not
to combine primitives.  E.g., `host foo and not port ftp and not port ftp-data'.
To save typing, identical qualifier lists can be omitted.  E.g.,
`tcp dst port ftp or ftp-data or domain' is exactly the same as
`tcp dst port ftp or tcp dst port ftp-data or tcp dst port domain'.
.LP
Allowable primitives are:
.IP "\fBsrcid \fIargusid\fR"
True if the argus identifier field in the Argus record is \fIsrcid\fP,
which may be an IP address, a name or a decimal/hexidecimal number.
.IP "\fBseq [gt | gte | lt | lte | eq] \fInumber\fR"
True if the transport sequence number in the Argus record matches the
\fIsequence number expression\fP. 
.IP "\fBencaps \fItype\fR"
True if the encapsulation used by the flow in the Argus record includes
the \fItype\fP.  The list of valid encapsulation types is:
.nf
.sp .5
   eth, mpls, 802q, llc, pppoe, isl, gre, erspan, ah, ipnip, ipnip6, hdlc, chdlc,
   atm, sll, fddi, slip, arc, wlan, prism, avs, lrh, grh, teredo, udt, ipsec, juniper

.IP "\fBdst host \fIhost\fR"
True if the IP destination field in the Argus record is \fIhost\fP,
which may be either an address or a name.
.IP "\fBsrc host \fIhost\fR"
True if the IP source field in the Argus record is \fIhost\fP.
.IP "\fBhost \fIhost\fP
True if either the IP source or destination in the Argus record is \fIhost\fP.
Any of the above host expressions can be prepended with the keywords
\fBip\fP, \fBarp\fP, or \fBrarp\fP as in:
.in +.5i
.nf
\fBip\fP host \fIhost\fR
.fi
.in -.5i
which is equivalent to:
.in +.5i
.nf
\fBether proto \fB\ip\fP and host \fIhost\fR
.fi
.in -.5i
If \fIhost\fR is a name with multiple IP addresses, each address will
be checked for a match.
.IP "\fBether dst \fIehost\fP
True if the ethernet destination address is \fIehost\fP.  \fIEhost\fP
may be either a name from /etc/ethers or a number (see
.IR ethers (3N)
for numeric format).
.IP "\fBether src \fIehost\fP
True if the ethernet source address is \fIehost\fP.
.IP "\fBether host \fIehost\fP
True if either the ethernet source or destination address is \fIehost\fP.
.IP "\fBgateway\fP \fIhost\fP
True if the transaction used \fIhost\fP as a gateway.  I.e., the ethernet
source or destination address was \fIhost\fP but neither the IP source
nor the IP destination was \fIhost\fP.  \fIHost\fP must be a name and
must be found in both /etc/hosts and /etc/ethers.  (An equivalent
expression is
.in +.5i
.nf
\fBether host \fIehost \fBand not host \fIhost\fR
.fi
.in -.5i
which can be used with either names or numbers for \fIhost / ehost\fP.)
.IP "\fBdst net \fIcidr\fR"
True if the IP destination address in the Argus record matches the
\fIcidr\fP address.
.IP "\fBsrc net \fIcidr\fR"
True if the IP source address in the Argus record matches the \fIcidr\fP
address.
.IP "\fBnet \fIcidr\fR"
True if either the IP source or destination address in the Argus record matches 
\fIcidr\fP address.
.IP "\fBdst port \fIport\fR"
True if the network transaction is IP based, using either the TCP or UDP transport
protocols, and a destination port value of \fIport\fP.
The \fIport\fP can be a number or a name as configured in the /etc/services file.(see
.IR tcp (4P)
and
.IR udp (4P)).
If a name is used, both the protocol number and port number, are checked.
If a number or ambiguous name is used, the port number is checked for both UDP and
TCP protocols (e.g., \fBdst port 513\fR will print both tcp/login traffic and
udp/who traffic, and \fBport domain\fR will match both tcp/domain and udp/domain traffic).
Port ranges can be specified using numeric values, such as \fBport 53-215\fR.

.IP "\fBsrc port \fIport\fR"
True if the network transaction has a source port value of \fIport\fP.
.IP "\fBport \fIport\fR"
True if either the source or destination port in the Argus record is \fIport\fP.
Any of the above port expressions can be prepended with the keywords,
\fBtcp\fP or \fBudp\fP, as in:
.in +.5i
.nf
\fBtcp src port \fIport\fR
.fi
.in -.5i
which matches only tcp connections.
.IP "\fBip proto \fIprotocol\fR"
True if the Argus record is an ip transaction (see
.IR ip (4P))
of protocol type \fIprotocol\fP.
\fIProtocol\fP can be a number or any of the string values found
in \fI/etc/protocols\fP.
.IP \fBmulticast\fR
True if the network transaction involved an ip multicast address.
By specifing ether multicast, you can select argus records that
involve an ethernet multicast address.
.IP \fBbroadcast\fR
True if the network transaction involved an ip broadcast address.
By specifing ether broadcast, you can select argus records that
involve an ethernet broadcast address.
.IP  "\fBether proto \fIprotocol\fR"
True if the Argus record is of ether type \fIprotocol\fR.
\fIProtocol\fP can be a number or a name like
\fIip\fP, \fIarp\fP, or \fIrarp\fP.
.IP "\fB[src | dst] ttl [gt | gte | lt | lte | eq] \fInumber\fR"
True if the TTL in the Argus record equals \fInumber\fP.
.IP "\fB[src | dst] tos [gt | gte | lt | lte | eq] \fInumber\fR"
True if the TOS in the Argus record (default) equals \fInumber\fP.
.IP "\fB[src | dst] vid [gt | gte | lt | lte | eq] \fInumber\fR"
True if th VLAN id in the Argus record (default) equals \fInumber\fP.
.IP "\fB[src | dst] vpri [gt | gte | lt | lte | eq] \fInumber\fR"
True if the VLAN priority in the Argus record (default) equals \fInumber\fP.
.IP "\fB[src | dst] mid [gt | gte | lt | lte | eq] \fInumber\fR"
True if the MPLS Label in the Argus record (default) equals \fInumber\fP.
.IP "\fB[src | dst] pkts [gt | gte | lt | lte | eq] \fInumber\fR"
True if the packet count in the Argus record (default) equals \fInumber\fP.
.IP "\fB[src | dst] bytes [gt | gte | lt | lte | eq] \fInumber\fR"
True if the byte count in the Argus record (default) equals \fInumber\fP.
.IP "\fB[src | dst] appbytes [gt | gte | lt | lte | eq] \fInumber\fR"
True if the application byte count in the Argus record (default) equals \fInumber\fP.
.IP "\fB[src | dst] rate [gt | gte | lt | lte | eq] \fInumber\fR"
True if the rate in the Argus record (default) equals \fInumber\fP.
.IP "\fB[src | dst] load [gt | gte | lt | lte | eq] \fInumber\fR"
True if the load in the Argus record (default) equals \fInumber\fP.

.LP
Ra filter expressions support primitives that are specific
to flow states and can be used to select flow records that
were in these states at the time they were generated.
\fInormal\fP,
\fIwait\fP,
\fItimeout\fP,
\fIest\fP or \fIcon\fP

Primitives that select flows that experienced fragmentation.
\fIfrag\fP and
\fIfragonly\fP

Support for selecting flows that used multiple pairs of MAC
addresses during their lifetime.
\fImultipath\fP

.LP
Primitives specific to TCP flows are supported.
\fIsyn\fP,
\fIsynack\fP,
\fIecn\fP,
\fIfin\fP,
\fIfinack\fP,
\fIreset\fP,
\fIretrans\fP,
\fIoutoforder\fP and
\fIwinshut\fP

Primitives specific to TCP options are supported.
\fItcpopt\fP,
\fImss\fP,
\fIwscale\fP,
\fIselackok\fP,
\fIselack\fP,
\fItcpecho\fP,
\fItcpechoreply\fP,
\fItcptimestamp\fP,
\fItcpcc\fP,
\fItcpccnew\fP,
\fItcpccecho\fP,
\fIsecn\fP and
\fIdecn\fP

Primitives specific to ICMP flows are supported.
\fIecho\fP,
\fIunreach\fP,
\fIredirect\fP and
\fItimexed\fP

.LP
For some primitives, a direction qualifier is appropriate.
These are
\fIfrag\fP,
\fIreset\fP,
\fIretrans\fP,
\fIoutoforder\fP and
\fIwinshut\fP

.LP
Primitives may be combined using:
.IP
A parenthesized group of primitives and operators
(parentheses are special to the Shell and must be escaped).
.IP
Negation (`\fB!\fP' or `\fBnot\fP').
.IP
Concatenation (`\fBand\fP').
.IP
Alternation (`\fBor\fP').
.LP
Negation has highest precedence.
Alternation and concatenation have equal precedence and associate
left to right.  Note that explicit \fBand\fR tokens, not juxtaposition,
are now required for concatenation.
.LP
If an identifier is given without a keyword, the most recent keyword
is assumed.
For example,
.in +.5i
.nf
\fBnot host sphynx and anubis\fR
.fi
.in -.5i
is short for
.in +.5i
.nf
\fBnot host sphynx and host anubis\fR
.fi
.in -.5i
which should not be confused with
.in +.5i
.nf
\fBnot ( host sphynx or anubis )\fR
.fi
.in -.5i
.LP
Expression arguments can be passed to \fBra(1)\fP as either a single argument
or as multiple arguments, whichever is more convenient.
Generally, if the expression contains Shell metacharacters, it is
easier to pass it as a single, quoted argument.
Multiple arguments are concatenated with spaces before being parsed.

.SS "Startup Processing"
\fBRa\fP begins by searching for the configuration file \fB.rarc\fP first
in the directory, \fB$ARGUSHOME\fP and then \fB$HOME\fP.  If a \fB.rarc\fP
is found, all variables specified in the file are set.
.PP
\fBRa\fP then parses its command line options and set its internal variables
accordingly.
.PP
If a configuration file is specified on the command-line, using the "-f <confile>"
option, the values in this .rarc formatted file superceed all other values.


.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
To report all TCP transactions from and to host 'narly.wave.com',
reading transaction data from \fIargus-file\fP argus.data:
.RS
.nf
\fBra -r argus.data - tcp and host narly.wave.com\fP
.fi
.RE
.LP
To report all UDP based DNS traffic,
reading transaction data from the remote \fIargus.server\fP:
.RS
.nf
\fBra -S argus.server - udp port domain
.fi
.RE
.LP
To report all UDP transactions seen by the remote \fIargus.server\fP
on the port range 53-256, but not sending the filter to the remote
argus process:
.RS
.nf
\fBra -S argus.server - local udp port 53-256
.fi
.RE
.LP
Create the \fIargus-file\fP icmp.log with all ICMP events involving
the host nimrod, using data from \fIargus-file\fP, but reading the
transaction data from \fIstdin\fP:
.RS
.nf
\fBcat \fIargus-file\fP | ra -r - -w icmp.log - icmp and host nimrod\fP
.fi
.RE
.LP
Read an \fIargus-file\fP at twice normal speed.
.RS
.nf
\fBra -r argus.file -M rtime:2
.fi

.RE
.br
.SH OUTPUT FORMAT
.LP
The following is a brief description of the default output of .B ra.
While this is by no means the 'preferred' set of data that one should
generate, it represents a starting point for using flow data in general.
This also looks pretty good on 80 column terminals.  The format is:
.RE
.RS
.nf
.sp .1
\fI  time  flgs proto  shost  dir  daddr metrics state\fP
.sp .1
.fi
.RE
.TP 4 4
.BI time
The format of the \fItime\fP field is specified by the .rarc file, using
syntax supported by the routine
.B strftime(3V).
The default is '%T'.
.B Argus
transactional data contains both starting and ending transaction times,
with precision to the microsecond. However,
.B ra
by default prints out the 'stime' field, the records starting time.
.TP 4 4
.BI flgs
The \fIflgs\fP indicator consists of a fixed length field. That reports
various flow record and protocol identifiers, states and attributes.
The format is:
.nf
.sp .5

 T        -  Time Corrected/Adjusted
 N        -  Netflow Originated Data
  *       -  Multiple sub-IP encapsulations
  e       -  Ethernet encapsulated flow
  E       -  ERSPAN encapsulation
  M       -  Multiple mac addresses seen
  m       -  MPLS encapsulated flow
  l       -  LLC encapsulated flow
  v       -  802.1Q encapsulations/tags
  w       -  802.11 wireless encapsulation
  p       -  PPP over Enternet encapsulated flow
  i       -  ISL encapsulated flow
  G       -  GRE encapsulation
  a       -  AH encapsulation
  P       -  IP tunnel encapsulation
  6       -  IPv6 tunnel encapsulation
  H       -  HDLC encapsulation
  C       -  Cisco HDLC encapsulation
  A       -  ATM encapsulation
  S       -  SLL encapsulation
  F       -  FDDI encapsulation
  s       -  SLIP encapsulation
  R       -  ARCNET encapsulation
   I      -  ICMP events mapped to this flow
   U      -  ICMP Unreachable event mapped to this flow
   R      -  ICMP Redirect event mapped to this flow
   T      -  ICMP Time Exceeded mapped to this flow
    *     -  Both Src and Dst loss/retransmission
    s     -  Src loss/retransmissions
    d     -  Dst loss/retransmissions
    g     -  Gaps in sequence numbers were observed
    &     -  Both Src and Dst packet out of order
    i     -  Src packets out of order
    r     -  Dst packets out of order
     @    -  Both Src and Dst Window Closure
     S    -  Src TCP Window Closure
     D    -  Dst TCP Window Closure
     *    -  Silence suppression used by both src and dst (RTP)
     s    -  Silence suppression used by src
     d    -  Silence suppression used by dst
      E   -  Both Src and Dst ECN
      x   -  Src Explicit Congestion Notification
      t   -  Dst ECN
       V  -  Fragment overlap seen (if fragments seen)
       f  -  Partial Fragment (if fragments seen)
       F  -  Fragments seen
        O  -  multiple IP options set
        S  -  IP option Strict Source Route
        L  -  IP option Loose Source Route
        T  -  IP option Time Stamp
        +  -  IP option Security
        R  -  IP option Record Route
        A  -  IP option Router Alert
        U  -  unknown IP options set
.fi

.TP 4 4
.BI proto
The proto field indicates the upper protocol used in the transaction.
This field will contain the first 4 characters of the official
name for the protocol used, as defined in RFC-1700, and configured
using the /etc/protocols file.  Argus attempts to discovery the Realtime
Transport Protocol (rtp), when it is being used.
When it encounters rtp, it will indicate its use in this field, with
the string 'rtp'.  Use of the
.B -n
option, twice (-nn), will cause the actual protocol number to be
displayed.
.TP 4 4
.BI shost
The \fIshost\fP field is meant to convey the originator of the
data in the flow.  This field is protocol dependent, and for IP
protocols will contain the src IP address/name.  For TCP and UDP,
the field will also contain the port number/name, separated by a
period.

The 'src' is generally the entity that first transmits a packet
that is a part of a flow.  However, the assignment of 'src'
and 'dst' semantics is somewhat complicated by the notion of loss,
or half-duplex monitoring, especially when connection-oriented
protocol 
, such
as TCP, are
reported.  In this case the 'src' is the entity that initiated
the flow.
.TP 3 3
.BI dir
The \fIdir\fP field will have the direction of the transaction,
as can be best determined from the datum, and is used to indicate
which hosts are transmitting. For TCP, the dir field indicates
the actual source of the TCP connection, and the center character
indicating the state of the transaction.
.RS
.nf
.sp .5
     -  - transaction was NORMAL
     |  - transaction was RESET
     o  - transaction TIMED OUT.
     ?  - direction of transaction is unknown.
.fi
.RE
.TP 4 4
.BI daddr
The \fIdaddr\fP field is meant to convey the recipient of the
data in the flow.  Like the shost field, this field is protocol
dependent, and for IP protocols will contain the dst IP address/name,
and optionally the DSAP.

.TP 4 4
.BI metrics
\fImetrics\fP represent the general sets of fields that reflect
the activity of the flow.  In the default output, there are 4 fields.
The first 2 are the packet counts and the last 2 are the byte counts
for the specific transaction.  The fields are paired with the
previous host fields, and represent the packets transmitted by
the respective host.
.TP 4 4
.BI state
The \fIstate\fP field indicates the principle state for the transaction
report, and is protocol dependent.  For all the protocols, except ICMP,
this field reports on the basic state of a transaction.
.TP 4 4
.in .25i
.B REQ|INT (requested|initial)
This indicates that this is the \fIinitial\fP state report for a
transaction and is seen only when the \fIargus-server\fP is in DETAIL
mode.  For TCP connections this is \fBREQ\fP, indicating that a
connection is being requested.  For the connectionless protocols,
such as UDP, this is \fBINT\fP.
.TP 4 4
.in .25i
.B ACC (accepted)
This indicates that a request/response condition has occurred,
and that a transaction has been detected between two hosts.
For TCP, this indicates that a connection request has been
answered, and the connection will be accepted.  This is only seen
when the \fIargus-server\fP is in DETAIL mode.  For the
connectionless protocols, this state indicates that there
has been a single packet exchange between two hosts, and could
qualify as a request/response transaction.
.TP 4 4
.in .25i
.B EST|CON (established|connected)
This record type indicates that the reported transaction is active, and
has been established or is continuing.  This should be interpreted as a
state report of a currently active transaction.
For TCP, the EST state is only seen in DETAIL mode, and indicates
that the three way handshake has been completed for a connection.
.TP 4 4
.in .25i
.B CLO (closed) 
TCP specific, this record type indicates that the TCP connection has
closed normally.
.TP 4 4
.in .25i
.B TIM (timeout)
Activity was not seen relating to this transaction, during the
.B argus
server's timeout period for this protocol.  This state is seen
only when there were packets recorded since the last report for
this transaction.

.LP
For the ICMP and ICMPv6 protocols, the \fIstate\fP field displays
specific aspects of the ICMP type.  ICMP state can have the values:
.nf
.in 10

\fBECO\fP     Echo Request
\fBECR\fP     Echo Reply
\fBSRC\fP     Source Quench
\fBRED\fP     Redirect
\fBRTA\fP     Router Advertisement
\fBRTS\fP     Router Solicitation
\fBTXD\fP     Time Exceeded
\fBPAR\fP     Parameter Problem
\fBTST\fP     Time Stamp Request
\fBTSR\fP     Time Stamp Reply
\fBIRQ\fP     Information Request
\fBIRR\fP     Information Reply
\fBMAS\fP     Mask Request
\fBMSR\fP     Mask Reply
\fBURN\fP     Unreachable network
\fBURH\fP     Unreachable host
\fBURP\fP     Unreachable port
\fBURF\fP     Unreachable need fragmentation
\fBURS\fP     Unreachable source failed
\fBURNU\fP    Unreachable dst network unknown
\fBURHU\fP    Unreachable dst host unknown
\fBURISO\fP   Unreachable source host isolated
\fBURNPRO\fP  Unreachable network administrative prohibited
\fBURHPRO\fP  Unreachable host administrative prohibited
\fBURNTOS\fP  Unreachable network TOS prohibited
\fBURHTOS\fP  Unreachable host TOS prohibited
\fBURFIL\fP   Unreachable administrative filter
\fBURPRE\fP   Unreachable precedence violation
\fBURCUT\fP   Unreachable precedence cutoff

\fBMRQ\fP     Membership Query
\fBMHR\fP     Membership Report
\fBNRS\fP     Neighbor Discovery Router Solicit
\fBNRA\fP     Neighbor Discovery Router Advertisement
\fBNNS\fP     Neighbor Discovery Neighbor Solicit
\fBNNA\fP     Neighbor Discovery Neighbor Advertisement
\fBPTB\fP     Packet Too Big
.fi

.LP
.br
.SH OUTPUT EXAMPLES

These examples show typical \fBra\fP output, and demonstrates a
number of variations seen in \fBargus\fP data.  This \fBra\fP
output was generated using the \fB-n\fP option to suppress
number translation.

.in -6n
.ll +1n
.ft B
.nf
Thu 12/29 06:40:32   S tcp  132.3.31.15.6439   -> 12.23.14.77.23   CLO
.fi
.ft R
.in +6n
.ll -1n
This is a normal tcp transaction to the telnet port on host 12.23.14.77.
The IP Option strict source route was seen.

.in -6n
.ll +1n
.ft B
.nf
Thu 12/29 06:40:32     tcp  132.3.31.15.6200  <|  12.23.14.77.25   RST
.fi
.ft R
.in +6n
.ll -1n
This tcp transaction from the smtp port of host 12.23.14.77
was \fBRESET\fP.  In many cases this indicates that the transaction was
rejected, however some os's will use RST to close an active TCP.  Use
either the -z or -Zb options to specify exactly what conditions existed
during the connection.

.in -6n
.ll +1n
.ft B
.nf
Thu 12/29 03:39:05  M  igmp 12.88.14.10       <-> 128.2.2.10       CON
.fi
.ft R
.in +6n
.ll -1n
This is an igmp transaction state report, usually seen with MBONE traffic.
There was more than one source and destination MAC address pair used to
support the transaction, suggesting a possible routing loop.

.in -6n
.ll +1n
.ft B
.nf
Thu 12/29 06:40:05 *   tcp  12.23.14.23.1043  <-> 12.23.14.27.6000 TIM
.fi
.ft R
.fi
.in +6n
.ll -1n
This is an X-windows transaction, that has \fBTIMEDOUT\fP.   Packets
were retransmitted during the connection.

.in -6n
.ll +1n
.ft B
.nf
Thu 12/29 07:42:09     udp   12.9.1.115.2262   -> 28.12.141.6.139  INT
.fi
.ft R
.in +6n
.ll -1n
This is an initial netbios UDP transaction state report, indicating
that this is the first datagram encountered for this transaction. 

.in -6n
.ll +1n
.ft B
.nf
Thu 12/29 06:42:09     icmp  12.9.1.115       <-> 12.68.5.127      ECO
.fi
.ft R
.in +6n
.ll -1n
This example represents a "ping" of host 12.9.1.115, and its response. 
.in -6n
.ll +1n

.ss 12
.cs B
.ft R
This next example shows the \fBra\fP output of a complete TCP transaction,
with the preceeding Arp and DNS requests, while reading from a remote
\fIargus-server\fP.   The '*' in the CLO report indicates that at least
one TCP packet was retransmitted during the transaction.  The hostnames
in this example are ficticious.

.nf
% ra -S argus-tcp://\fIargus-server\fP and host i.qosient.com
ra: Trying argus-server port 561
ra: connected Argus Version 3.0
Sat 12/03 15:29:38     arp  i.qosient.com     who-has  dsn.qosient.com  INT
Sat 12/03 15:29:39     udp  i.qosient.com.1542  <->    dns.qosient.53   INT
Sat 12/03 15:29:39     arp  i.qosient.com     who-has  qosient.com      INT
Sat 12/03 15:29:39 *   tcp  i.qosient.com.1543   ->    qosient.com.smtp CLO
.fi
.ss 12
.cs B
.ft
.fi
.br
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2000-2016 QoSient. All rights reserved.
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Carter Bullard (carter@qosient.com).
.fi
.SH FILES
.BR /etc/ra.conf
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rarc (5)
.BR argus (8)
.LP
Postel, Jon,
.IR "Internet Protocol",
.SM RFC
791,
Network Information Center,
.SM SRI
International, Menlo Park, Calif.,
May 1981.
.LP
Postel, Jon, 
.IR "Internet Control Message Protocol" ,
.SM RFC
792,
Network Information Center, SRI International, Menlo Park, Calif.,
May 1981.
.LP
Postel, Jon, 
.IR "Transmission Control Protocol" ,
.SM RFC
793,
Network Information Center, SRI International, Menlo Park, Calif.,
May 1981.
.LP
Postel, Jon,
.IR "User Datagram Protocol" ,
.SM RFC
768,
Network Information Center, SRI International, Menlo Park, Calif.,
May 1980.
.LP
McCanne, Steven, and Van Jacobson,
.IR "The BSD Packet Filter: A New Architecture for User-level Capture" ,
Lawrwnce Berkeley Laboratory, One Cyclotron Road, Berkeley, Calif., 94720,
December 1992.
