.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2016 QoSient, LLC
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
.\" any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH RABINS 1 "12 August 2003" "rabins 3.0.8"
.SH NAME
\fBrabins\fP \- process \fBargus(8)\fP data within specified bins.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rabins
\fB[\-B\fB \fIsecs\fP\fB] \-M\fP \fIsplitmode\fP [\fIoptions\fP]] [\fBraoptions\fP] [\fB--\fP \fIfilter-expression\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "rabins command"  ""  "\fBrabins\fP \(em argus data"
.LP
\fBRabins\fP reads
.BR argus
data from an \fIargus-data\fP source, and adjusts the data so that
it is aligned to a set of bins, or slots, that are based on either time,
input size, or count.  The resulting output is split, modified, and
optionally aggregated so that the data fits to the constraints of the
specified bins.  \fBrabins\fP is designed to be a combination of
\fBrasplit\fP and \fBracluster\fP, acting on multiple contexts of argus
data.

The principal function of \fBrabins\fP is to align input data to a series
of bins, and then process the data within the context of each bin.  This is
the basis for real-time stream block processing.  Time series stream block
processing is cricital for flow data graphing, comparing, analyzing, and correlation.
Fixed load stream block processing, based on the number of argus data records
('count'), or a fixed volume of data ('size') allows for control of resources
in processing.  While load based options are very useful, they are rather esoteric.
See the online examples and rasplit.1 for examples of using these modes of operation.

.SH Time Series Bins
Time series bin'ing is specified using the \fB-M\fP \fItime\fP option.
Time bins are specified by the size and granularity of the time bin.
The granularity, 's'econds, 'm'inutes, 'h'ours, 'd'ays, 'w'eeks, 'M'onths,
and 'y'ears, dictates where the bin boundaries lie.  To ensure that 0.5d and 12h
start on the same point in time, second, minute, hour, and day based bins
start at midnight, Jan 1st of the year of processing.  Week, month and year
bins all start on natural time boundaries, for the period.

\fBrabins\fP provides a separate processing context for each bin, so that
aggregation and sorting occur only within the context of each time period.
Records are placed into bins based on load or time.  For load based bins,
input records are processed in received order and are not modified. When
using time based bins, records are placed into bins based on the starting
time of the record.  By default, records that span a time boundary are split
into as many records as needed to fit the record into appropriate bin sizes,
using the algorithms used by \fBrasplit.1\fP.  Metrics are distributed
uniformly within all the appropriate bins. The result is a series of data
and/or fragments that are time aligned, appropriate for time seried analysis,
and visualization.

When a record is split to conform to a time series bin, the resulting starting
and ending timestamps may or may not coincide with the timestamps of the bins
themselves. For some applications, this treatment is critical to the analytics
that are working on the resulting data, such as transaction duration, and
flow traffic burst behavior.  However, for other analytics, like average load,
and rate analysis and reporting, the timestamps need to be modified so that
they reflect the time range of the actual time bin boundaries.  Rabins
supports the optional \fBhard\fP option to specify that timestamps should
conform to bin boundaries.  One of the results of this is that all durations
in the reported records will be the bin duration.  This is extremely important
when processing certain time series metrics, like load.

.SH Load Based Bins
Load based bin'ing is specified using the \fB-M size\fP or \fB-M count\fP
options.  Load bins are used to constrain the resource used in bin
processing.  So much load is input, aggregation is performed on the input
load, and when a threshold is reached, the entire aggregation cache is
dumped, reinitiallized, and reused.  These can be used effectively to
provide realtime data reduction, but within a fixed amount of memory.


.SH Output Processing
\fBrabins\fP has two basic modes of output, the default holds all output in main memory
until EOF is encountered on input, where each sorted bin is written out. The second
output mode, has \fBrabins\fP writing out the contents of individual sorted bins,
periodically based on a holding time, specified using the \fI-B secs\fP option.
The \fIsecs\fP value should be chosen such that \fBrabins\fP will have seen all 
the appropriate incoming data for that time period.  This is determined by the
ARGUS_FLOW_STATUS_INTERVAL used by the collection of argus data sources in the 
input data stream, as well as any time drift that may exist amoung argus data
processin elements.  When there is good time sync, and with an ARGUS_FLOW_STATUS_INTERVAL
of 5 seconds, appropriate \fIsecs\fP values are between 5-15 seconds.

The output of \fBrabins\fP when using the \fI-B secs\fP option, is appropriate to drive
a number of processing elements, such as near real-time visualizations and alarm and
reporting.


.SH Output Stream

Like all \fBra.1\fP client programs, the output of \fBrabins.1\fP is an argus
data stream, that can be written as binary data to a file or standard output,
or can be printed.  \fBrabins\fP supports all the output functions provided by
\fBrasplit.1\fP. 


The output files name consists of a prefix, which is specified using
the \fI-w\fP \fIra option\fP, and for all modes except \fBtime\fP mode,
a suffix, which is created for each resulting file.  If no prefix is
provided, then \fBrabins\fP will use 'x' as the default prefix.  The suffix
that is used is determined by the mode of operation.  When \fBrabins\fP
is using the default count mode or the size mode, the suffix is a group
of letters 'aa', 'ab', and so on, such that concatenating the output files
in sorted order by file name produces the original input file.  If
\fBrabins\fP will need to create more output files than are allowed
by the default suffix strategy, more letters will be added, in order
to accomodate the needed files.

When \fBrabins\fP is spliting based on time, \fBrabins\fP uses a default
extension of %Y.%m.%d.%h.%m.%s.  This default can be overrided by adding
a '%' extension to the name provided using the \fI-w\fP option.

When standard out is specified, using \fI-w -\fP, \fBrabins\fP
will output a single \fBargus-stream\fP with START and STOP argus management
records inserted appropriately to indicate where the output is split.
See \fBargus(8)\fP for more information on output stream formats.

When \fBrabins\fP is spliting on output record count (the default), the
number of records is specified as an ordinal counter, the default is
1000 records.  When \fBrabins\fP is spliting based on the maximum output
file size, the size is specified as bytes.  The scale of the bytes can be
specified by appending 'b', 'k' and 'm' to the number provided.

When \fBrabins\fP is spliting base on time, the time period is specified
with the option, and can be any period based in seconds (s), minutes (m),
hours (h), days (d), weeks (w), months (M) or years (y).  \fBRabins\fP
will create and modify records as required to split on prescribed time
boundaries.  If any record spans a time boundary, the record is split
and the metrics are adjusted using a uniform distribution model to
distribute the statistics between the two records.

See \fBrasplit.1\fP for specifics.


.SH RABINS SPECIFIC OPTIONS
\fBrabins\fP, like all ra based clients, supports a number of \fBra options\fP including
remote data access, reading from multiple files and filtering of input argus
records through a terminating filter expression.  Rabins also provides
all the functions of \fBracluster.1\fP and \fBrasplit.1\fP, for processing and
outputing data.  \fBrabins\fP specific options are:

.TP 5
.BI \-B "\| secs\^"
Holding time in seconds before closing a bin and outputing its contents.
.PP
.TP 5
.BI \-M "\| splitmode\^"
Supported spliting modes are:
.PP
.RS
.TP 5
.B time <n[smhdwMy]>
bin records into time slots of n size.  This is used for time series
analytics, especially graphing.  Records, by default are split, so that
their timestamps do not span the time range specified.  Metrics are
uniformly distributed among the resulting records.
.TP
.B count <n[kmb]>
bin records into chunks based on the number of records.  This is used
for archive management and parallel processing analytics, to limit the
size of data processing to fixed numbers of records.
.TP
.B size <n[kmb]>
bin records into chunks based on the number of total bytes.  This is used
for archive management and parallel processing analytics, to limit the
size of data processing to fixed byte limitations.
.RE
.TP 5
.BI \-M "\| modes\^"
Supported processing modes are:
.PD 0
.PP
.RS
.TP 5
.B hard
split on hard time boundaries.  Each flow records start and stop times will
be the time boundary times.  The default is to use the original start and stop
timestamps from the records that make up the resulting aggregation.
.TP
.B nomodify
Do not split the record when including it into a time bin.  This allows a time
bin to represent times outside of its defintion.  This option should
not be used with the 'hard' option, as you will modify metrics and semantics.
.RE
.TP 5
.BI \-m "\| aggregation object\^"
Supported aggregation objects are:
.PD 0
.PP
.RS
.TP 15
.B none
use a null flow key.
.TP
.B srcid
argus source identifier.
.TP
.B smac
source mac(ether) addr.
.TP
.B dmac
destination mac(ether) addr.
.TP
.B soui
oui portion of the source mac(ether) addr.
.TP
.B doui
oui portion of the destination mac(ether) addr.
.TP
.B smpls
source mpls label.
.TP
.B dmpls
destination label addr.
.TP
.B svlan
source vlan label.
.TP
.B dvlan
destination vlan addr.
.TP
.B saddr/[l|m]
source IP addr/[cidr len | m.a.s.k].
.TP
.B daddr/[l|m]
destination IP addr/[cidr len | m.a.s.k].
.TP
.B matrix/l
sorted src and dst IP addr/cidr len.
.TP
.B proto
transaction protocol.
.TP
.B sport
source port number. Implies use of 'proto'.
.TP
.B dport
destination port number. Implies use of 'proto'.
.TP
.B stos
source TOS byte value.
.TP
.B dtos
destination TOS byte value.
.TP
.B sttl
src -> dst TTL value.
.TP
.B dttl
dst -> src TTL value.
.TP
.B stcpb
src -> dst TCP base sequence number.
.TP
.B dtcpb
dst -> src TCP base sequence number.
.TP
.B inode[/l|m]]
intermediate node IP addr/[cidr len | m.a.s.k], source of ICMP mapped events.
.TP
.B sco
source ARIN country code, if present.
.TP
.B dco
destination ARIN country code, if present.
.TP
.B sas
source node origin AS number, if available.
.TP
.B das
destination node origin AS number, if available.
.TP
.B ias
intermediate node origin AS number, if available.
.RE

.TP 5
.BI \-P "\| sort field\^"
\fBRabins\fP can sort its output based on a sort field
specification.  Because the \fB-m\fP option is used for
aggregation fields, \fB-P\fP is used to specify the 
print priority order.  See \fBrasort(1)\fP for the list of
sortable fields.

.TP 5
.BI \-w "\| filename\^"
\fBRabins\fP supports an extended \fI-w\fP option that allows for
output record contents to be inserted into the output filename.
Specified using '$' (dollar) notation, any printable field can be used.
Care should be taken to honor any shell escape requirements when
specifying on the command line.  See \fBra(1)\fP for the list of
printable fields.

Another extended feature, when using \fBtime\fP mode, \fBrabins\fP
will process the supplied filename using \fBstrftime(3)\fP, so that
time fields can be inserted into the resulting output filename.

.SH INVOCATION
This invocation aggregates \fBinputfile\fP based on 10 minute time boundaries.
Input is split to fit within a 10 minute time boundary, and within those boundaries,
argus records are aggregated.  The resulting output its streamed to a single file.
.nf
   
   \fBrabins\fP -r * -M time 10m -w outputfile
  
.fi
.P
This next invocation aggregates \fBinputfiles\fP based on 5 minute time boundaries, and
the output is written to 5 minute files.  Input is split such that all records
conform to hard 10 minute time boundaries, and within those boundaries, argus
records are aggregated, in this case, based on IP address matrix.  
.P
The resulting output its streamed to files that are named relative to the
records output content, a prefix of \fI/matrix/%Y/%m/%d/argus.\fP and the suffixes \fI%H.%M.%S\fP.
.ft CW
.nf
   
   \fBrabins\fP -r * -M hard time 5m -m matrix -w "/matrix/%Y/%m/%d/argus.%H.%M.%S"
  
.fi
.ft P
.P
This next invocation aggregates \fBinput.stream\fP based on matrix/24 into 10 second time
boundaries, holds the data for an additional 5 seconds after the time boundary has
passed, and then prints the complete sorted contents of each bin to standard output.
The output is printed at 10 second intervals, and the output is the content of the
previous  10 sec time bin.  This example is meant to provide, every 10 seconds, the
summary of all Class C subnet activity seen.  It is intended to run indefinately
printing out aggregated summary records.  By modifying the aggregation model,
using the "-f racluster.conf" option, you can achieve a great deal of data reduction
with a lot of semantic reporting.

.nf
.ft CW
.ps 6
.vs 7

% \fBrabins\fP -S localhost -m matrix/24 -B 5s -M hard time 10s -p0 -s +1trans - ipv4
           StartTime  Trans  Proto            SrcAddr   Dir            DstAddr  SrcPkts  DstPkts     SrcBytes     DstBytes State 
 2012/02/15.13:37:00      5     ip     192.168.0.0/24   <->     192.168.0.0/24       41       40         2860        12122   CON
 2012/02/15.13:37:00      2     ip     192.168.0.0/24    ->       224.0.0.0/24        2        0          319            0   INT
[ 10 seconds pass]
 2012/02/15.13:37:10     13     ip     192.168.0.0/24   <->    208.59.201.0/24      269      351        97886       398700   CON
 2012/02/15.13:37:10     14     ip     192.168.0.0/24   <->     192.168.0.0/24       86       92         7814        46800   CON
 2012/02/15.13:37:10      1     ip    17.172.224.0/24   <->     192.168.0.0/24       52       37        68125         4372   CON
 2012/02/15.13:37:10      1     ip     192.168.0.0/24   <->      199.7.55.0/24        7        7          784         2566   CON
 2012/02/15.13:37:10      1     ip     184.85.13.0/24   <->     192.168.0.0/24        6        5         3952         2204   CON
 2012/02/15.13:37:10      2     ip    66.235.132.0/24   <->     192.168.0.0/24        5        6          915         3732   CON
 2012/02/15.13:37:10      1     ip    74.125.226.0/24   <->     192.168.0.0/24        3        4          709          888   CON
 2012/02/15.13:37:10      3     ip       66.39.3.0/24   <->     192.168.0.0/24        3        3          369          198   CON
 2012/02/15.13:37:10      1     ip     192.168.0.0/24   <->     205.188.1.0/24        1        1           54          356   CON
[ 10 seconds pass]
 2012/02/15.13:37:20      6     ip     192.168.0.0/24   <->    208.59.201.0/24      392      461        60531       623894   CON
 2012/02/15.13:37:20      8     ip     192.168.0.0/24   <->     192.168.0.0/24       95      111         6948        93536   CON
 2012/02/15.13:37:20      3     ip     72.14.204.0/24   <->     192.168.0.0/24       38       32        38568         4414   CON
 2012/02/15.13:37:20      1     ip    17.112.156.0/24   <->     192.168.0.0/24       26       13        21798         7116   CON
 2012/02/15.13:37:20      2     ip    66.235.132.0/24   <->     192.168.0.0/24        6        3         1232         4450   CON
 2012/02/15.13:37:20      1     ip    66.235.133.0/24   <->     192.168.0.0/24        1        2           82          132   CON
[ 10 seconds pass]
 2012/02/15.13:37:30    117     ip     192.168.0.0/24   <->    208.59.201.0/24      697      663       369769       134382   CON
 2012/02/15.13:37:30     11     ip     192.168.0.0/24   <->     192.168.0.0/24      147      187        11210       193253   CON
 2012/02/15.13:37:30      1     ip     184.85.13.0/24   <->     192.168.0.0/24       13        9        13408         9031   CON
 2012/02/15.13:37:30      2     ip    66.235.132.0/24   <->     192.168.0.0/24        8        7         1920        11563   CON
 2012/02/15.13:37:30      1     ip     192.168.0.0/24   <->    207.46.193.0/24        5        3          802          562   CON
 2012/02/15.13:37:30      1     ip    17.112.156.0/24   <->     192.168.0.0/24        5        2          646         3684   CON
 2012/02/15.13:37:30      2     ip     192.168.0.0/24    ->       224.0.0.0/24        2        0          382            0   REQ
[ 10 seconds pass]

.vs
.ps
.ft P
.fi

This next invocation reads IP \fBargus(8)\fP data from \fBinputfile\fP and processes,
the \fBargus(8)\fP data stream based on input byte size of no greater than 1 Megabyte.
The resulting output stream is written to a single \fIargus.out\fP data file.
.nf
 
   \fBrabins\fP -r argusfile -M size 1m -s +1dur -m proto -w argus.out - ip
 
.fi

This invocation reads IP \fBargus(8)\fP data from \fBinputfile\fP and aggregates
the \fBargus(8)\fP data stream based on input file size of no greater
than 1K flows.  The resulting output stream is printed to the screen as 
standard argus records.
.nf

   \fBrabins\fP -r argusfile -M count 1k -m proto -s stime dur proto spkts dpkts - ip

.fi

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2000-2016 QoSient. All rights reserved.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ra(1),
.BR racluster(1),
.BR rasplit(1),
.BR rarc(5),
.BR argus(8),

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Carter Bullard (carter@qosient.com).
.fi
