.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2016 QoSient, LLC
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
.\" any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH RACLUSTER 1 "07 October 2003" "racluster 3.0.8"
.SH NAME
\fBracluster\fP \- aggregate \fBargus(8)\fP data files.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B racluster
[\fB\-f\fP \fIconf\fP] [\fB\-m\fP \fIagr(s)\fP] [\fB\-M\fP \fImode(s)\fP] [\fBraoptions\fP] [\fB--\fP \fIfilter-expression\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "racluster command"  ""  "\fLracluster\fP \(em argus data"
.LP
.B Racluster
reads
.BR argus
data from an \fIargus-data\fP source, and clusters/merges the records
based on the flow key criteria specified either on the command line, or
in a racluster configuration file, and outputs a valid \fIargus-stream\fP.
This tool is primarily used for data mining, data management and report
generation.

The default action is to merge status records from the same flow and
argus probe, providing in some cases huge data reduction with
limited loss of flow information.  Racluster provides the ability to
modify the flow model key, either using the "-m" option, or in the
racluster.conf file, allowing records to be clustered based on any
number of attributes.  This supports the development of important
reports, such as MPLS LSP usage statistics, DiffServe flow marking
policy verification, VLAN group behavior, IP distance related
measurements, routing loop detection, traceroute path data recovery,
and complex availability/reachability reports, to name just a few
useful applications.

Please see racluster.5 for detailed information regarding racluster
configuration.  

.SH OPTIONS
Racluster, like all ra based clients, supports a number of
\fBra options\fP including filtering of input argus
records through a terminating filter expression, and the ability
to specify the output style, format and contents for printing
data.  See \fBra(1)\fP for a complete description of \fBra options\fP.
\fBracluster(1)\fP specific options are:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 4 4
.BI \-m "\| aggregation object\^"
Supported aggregation objects are:
.PP
.RS
.TP 15
.B none
use a null flow key.
.TP
.B srcid
argus source identifier.
.TP
.B smac
source mac(ether) addr.
.TP
.B dmac
destination mac(ether) addr.
.TP
.B soui
oui portion of the source mac(ether) addr.
.TP
.B doui
oui portion of the destination mac(ether) addr.
.TP
.B smpls
source mpls label.
.TP
.B dmpls
destination label addr.
.TP
.B svlan
source vlan label.
.TP
.B dvlan
destination vlan addr.
.TP
.B saddr/[l|m]
source IP addr/[cidr len | m.a.s.k].
.TP
.B daddr/[l|m]
destination IP addr/[cidr len | m.a.s.k].
.TP
.B matrix/l
sorted src and dst IP addr/cidr len.
.TP
.B proto
transaction protocol.
.TP
.B sport
source port number. Implies use of 'proto'.
.TP
.B dport
destination port number. Implies use of 'proto'.
.TP
.B stos
source TOS byte value.
.TP
.B dtos
destination TOS byte value.
.TP
.B sttl
src -> dst TTL value.
.TP
.B dttl
dst -> src TTL value.
.TP
.B stcpb
src -> dst TCP base sequence number.
.TP
.B dtcpb
dst -> src TCP base sequence number.
.TP
.B inode[/l|m]]
intermediate node IP addr/[cidr len | m.a.s.k], source of ICMP mapped events.
.TP
.B sco
source ARIN country code, if present.
.TP
.B dco
destination ARIN country code, if present.
.TP
.B sas
source node origin AS number, if available.
.TP
.B das
destination node origin AS number, if available.
.TP
.B ias
intermediate node origin AS number, if available.

.TP
.RE
.TP 4 4
.BI \-M "\| modes\^"
Supported modes are:
.PP
.RS
.TP 15
.B correct
Attempt to correct the direction of flows by also searching the reverse
flow key, if a match isn't found in the cache.  This mode is on by default
when using the default full 5-tuple flow key definitions.
.TP
.B nocorrect
Turn off flow correction for direction.  This mode is used by default
if the flow key has been changed.
.TP
.B norep
Do not generate an aggregate statistic for each flow.  This is used
primarily when the output represents a single object.  Primarily used
when merging status records to generate single flows that represent
single transactions.
.TP
.B rmon
Generate data suitable for producing RMON types of metrics.
.TP
.B ind
Process each input file independantly, so that after the end of
each inputfile, racluster flushes its output.
.TP 
.B replace
Replace each inputfile contents, with the aggregated output. The initial file compression status is maintained
.PD
.RE
.TP 4 4
.BI \-V 
Verbose operation, printing a line of output for each input file processed.
Very useful when using the ra() -R option.
.RE

.SH INVOCATION
A sample invocation of \fBracluster(1)\fP.  This call reads \fBargus(8)\fP data
from \fBinputfile\fP and aggregates the TCP protocol based \fBargus(8)\fP data.
By default, \fBracluster(1)\fP merges using the standard 5-tuple flow key.
This method is used to merge multiple status records into a single flow record
per transaction.

.nf
.ft CW
.ps 6
.vs 7
% ra -r argus.tcp.2012.02.13.12.20.00 
    StartTime      Dur Trans      Flgs  Proto        SrcAddr  Sport   Dir        DstAddr  Dport  TotPkts State 
 12:23:07.268    0.997     1  e i         tcp   192.168.0.68.59016     ->  208.59.201.75.http        298   CON
 12:23:08.294    1.000     1  e           tcp   192.168.0.68.59016     ->  208.59.201.75.http        111   CON
 12:23:09.294    0.991     1  e d         tcp   192.168.0.68.59016     ->  208.59.201.75.http        637   CON
 12:23:10.331    0.330     1  e           tcp   192.168.0.68.59016     ->  208.59.201.75.http         89   CON
 12:23:32.183    0.010     1  e           tcp   192.168.0.68.59016     ->  208.59.201.75.http          3   FIN

% racluster -r argus.tcp.2012.02.13.12.20.00
    StartTime      Dur Trans      Flgs  Proto        SrcAddr  Sport   Dir        DstAddr  Dport  TotPkts State 
 12:23:07.268   24.925     5  e d         tcp   192.168.0.68.59016     ->  208.59.201.75.http       1138   FIN
.vs
.ps
.ft P
.fi

A sample invocation of \fBracluster(1)\fP.  This call reads \fBargus(8)\fP data
from \fBinputfile\fP and aggregates the TCP protocol based \fBargus(8)\fP data,
based on the source and destination address matrix and the protocol.  It reports the metrics
as a percent of the total.  

.nf
.ft CW
.ps 6
.vs 7

% racluster -r argus.2012.02.13.17.20.00 -m saddr/16 daddr proto -% \\
       -s stime dur trans proto saddr dir daddr pkts state - tcp and port https

    StartTime      Dur   pTrans  Proto        SrcAddr  Dir        DstAddr  pTotPkts State 
 17:49:54.225    8.101   33.333    tcp 192.168.0.0/16   ->   17.154.66.18    23.372   FIN
 17:48:42.607  179.761   13.333    tcp 192.168.0.0/16   ->  17.172.224.25    31.052   FIN
 17:50:01.113    0.803    6.667    tcp 192.168.0.0/16   -> 17.250.248.161     5.676   FIN
 17:49:54.525    1.153    6.667    tcp 192.168.0.0/16   ->  64.12.173.137     5.509   FIN
 17:50:35.411  101.133   26.667    tcp 192.168.0.0/16   ->  184.28.150.87    19.199   RST
 17:49:56.061   73.415    6.667    tcp 192.168.0.0/16   ->   205.188.8.47    11.018   RST
 17:49:55.677    0.434    6.667    tcp 192.168.0.0/16   -> 205.188.101.10     4.174   FIN
.vs
.ps
.ft P
.fi

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2000-2016 QoSient. All rights reserved.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR racluster(5),
.BR ra(1),
.BR rarc(5),
.BR argus(8),
.SH FILES

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Carter Bullard (carter@qosient.com).
.fi
.SH BUGS
