.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2016 QoSient, LLC
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
.\" any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH RACOUNT 1 "07 November 2000" "racount 3.0.8"
.SH NAME
\fBracount\fP \- count things from an \fBargus(8)\fP data file/stream.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B racount
.I [-M addr proto] [\fBraoptions\fP] [\fB--\fP \fIfilter-expression\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "racount command"  ""  "\fLracount\fP \(em argus data"
.LP
.B Racount
reads
.BR argus
data from an \fIargus-file\fP list, and prints out various
counts from the data in the file.  Racount supports, by default, a single line
output that provide total records and pkt and byte counts, broken down by
source and destination.

.LP
.SH OPTIONS
Racount, like all ra based clients, supports a number of
\fBra options\fP including filtering of input argus
records through a terminating filter expression.
See \fBra(1)\fP for a complete description of \fBra options\fP.

\fBracount\fP specfic options are:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 4 4
.BI \-M "\| modes\^"
Supported modes are:
.PP
.RS
.TP 8
.B proto
Print a count breakdown on protocols seen.  \fBracount\fP will report on IP protocols, ether protocols, arp, rarp and unknowwn.

.TP
.B addr
Print a summary report of the occurence of the various types of network
addresses encountered.  The current list of IANA standard network address types include:
    IPv4 Unicast ThisNet, Reserved, LoopBack, LinkLocal, TestNet and Private
    IPv4 Multicast Local, Internet, AdHoc, Reserved, SdpSap, Nasdaq, DisTrans, SrcSpec, Glop, Admin, OrgLocal and SiteLocal
    IPv6 Loopback, LinkLocal, SiteLocal, Global, V4Compat, V4Mapped and Unspecified 
    IPv6 MulticastNodeLocal, MulticastLinkLocal, MulticastSiteLocal, MulticastOrgLocal and MulticastGlobal

.SH EXAMPLE INVOCATION

This example runs \fBracount\fP against a single argus data file, generating the default output.

.nf
.ft CW
.ps 6
.vs 7
% racount -r argus.2012.02.13.17.20.00.out.gz
racount   records     total_pkts     src_pkts       dst_pkts       total_bytes        src_bytes          dst_bytes
    sum   336         21319          9266           12053          16954495           1329172            15625323          
.vs
.ps
.ft P
.fi

This example runs \fBracount\fP against a directory containing argus data, generating a protocol breakdown
as well as generating a network address summary.

.nf
.ft CW
.ps 6
.vs 7
% racount -M proto addr -r argus.2012.02.13.17.20.00.out.gz
racount   records     total_pkts     src_pkts       dst_pkts       total_bytes        src_bytes          dst_bytes
    sum   336         21319          9266           12053          16954495           1329172            15625323          
Protocol Summary
    udp   1           28             28             0              14692              14692              0                 
     ip   222         20751          8891           11860          16799531           1238670            15560861          
    udp   103         513            324            189            138274             74068              64206             
    udp   1           1              1              0              422                422                0                 
    arp   7           16             12             4              936                680                256               
Address Summary
  IPv4 Unicast              src 0           dst 40        
  IPv4 Unicast Private      src 6           dst 3         
  IPv6 LinkLocal            src 3           dst 0         
  IPv6 Multicast Link Local src 0           dst 3 
.fi
.vs
.ps
.ft P

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2000-2016 QoSient. All rights reserved.
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Carter Bullard (carter@qosient.com).
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ra (1),
.BR rarc (5),
.BR argus (8)
