.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2016 QoSient, LLC
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
.\" any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\" 
.\" Manpage for radecode.
.TH RADECODE 1 "09 July 2013" "radecode 3.0.8"
.SH NAME
radecode \- tshark-like decode of argus(1) user data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B radecode 
\fB\-r\fP \fIargusFlowFile\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "radecode command"  ""  "\fLradecode\fP \(em argus data"
.LP
.B
Radecode 
is a perl script that uses text2pcap(1) and tshark(1) from the wireshark(1) distribution to decode TCP and UDP flow associated user data from an 
.BR argus 
flow capture file.
You must enable 
.BR argus 
user data capture with the -U nnnn option or there will be no data to decode. Due to limitations in test2pcap only TCP and UDP flows are decoded. The other flow data are silently ignored.
.SH OPTIONS
In addition to the source file name all ra(1) options are available but may not make sense.
.SH SEE ALSO
tshark(1), text2pcap(1), ra(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2000-2016 QoSient. All rights reserved.
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Carter Bullard
Dave Edelman
.fi
.SH BUGS
