.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2016 QoSient, LLC
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
.\" any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH RAFILTERADDR 1 "12 August 2003" "rafilteraddr 3.0.8"
.SH NAME
\fBrafilteraddr\fP \- select \fBargus(8)\fP data based on an IANA IP address file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rafilteraddr
\fB[\-f\fP \fIaddress.file\fP [\fB [\-v] [\fBraoptions\fP] [\fB--\fP \fIfilter-expression\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "rafilteraddr command"  ""  "\fBrafilteraddr\fP \(em argus data"
.LP
\fBRafilteraddr\fP reads
.BR argus
data from an \fIargus-data\fP source, and selects records that include IP addresses
specified by the \fBaddress.spec\fP file.  This program provides high performance
address matching for any number of addresses.

.SH RAFILTERADDR ADDRESS SPECIFICATION
Rafilteraddr, reads a number of standard IANA IP address file formats that
specify IPv4, CIDR and IPV4 prefix addresses.  Examples of these file types
are provided in ./support/Config.

\fBrafilteraddr(1)\fP specific options are:
.TP 4 4
.B \-f <IPv4 address specification>>
Specify the list of addresses used for the address filter. This file can be in
several IANA based address specification formats, and is the same format as
the address labels for \fBralabel.1\fP.

.TP 4 4
.BI \-v
Invert the logic and print flows that don't match any of the addresses.

.SH INVOCATION
This invocation reads \fBargus(8)\fP data from \fBargusfile\fP and prints
records that match any of the IP addresses in the iana-ipv4-addresses.
.nf
 
   \fBrafilteraddr\fP -r argusfile -f iana-ipv4-addresses -- ip
 
.fi

An example address specification that describes a mix of CIDR addresses,
IPv4 address ranges and explicit addresses:
.nf

  192.168.0.0/24
  192.168.1.3-192.168.2.45
  207.237.36.98
.fi

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2000-2016 QoSient. All rights reserved.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ralabel.conf.5,
.BR ra(1),
.BR rarc(5),
.BR argus(8),

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Carter Bullard (carter@qosient.com).
.fi
