.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2016 QoSient, LLC
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
.\" any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH RAGRAPH 1 "21 July 2001" "ragraph 3.0.8"
.SH NAME
\fBragraph\fP \- graph \fBargus(8)\fP data.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ragraph metric [object]
[\fB\-M\fP \fImode\fP] [\fBoptions\fP] [\fBraoptions\fP] [\fB--\fP \fIfilter-expression\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "ragraph command"  ""  "\fLragraph\fP \(em argus data"
.LP
.B Ragraph
reads \fBargus(8)\fP data from an \fIargus-file\fP, and graphs
fields of interest from matching argus flow activity records.
You must specify the metric(s), the flow object/identifier(s)
and the time granularity required for the graph.  Standard
raoptions are available to filter input and specify the time
range of interest, and graphing options are provided to specify
x and y axis labels, titles, upper and lower range limits, 
and plot sizes.  Support for logorithmic scaling, object stacking,
and split graphing are provided to provide some flexibility in
the graphs you can produce.

\fBRagraph\fP supports graphing most metrics that are available
in argus data, including, bytes, packet counts, average duration,
loss, jitter, load, and rate.  These metrics can be graphed in
association with flow identifiers, such as source or destination
address, network address, source identifier, protocol, port numbers,
services, vlan id, mpls tag, ttl, and tos values.  Currently, there
are limits to the number of metrics and objects that can be graphed
at one time, so assume that \fBragraph\fP is a simple graphing tool.

By default \fBragraph\fP writes its output to ragraph.png, in
the current directory.  Use the '-w' raoption to specify an
alternate output filename.

\fBRagraph\fP is implemented as a perl script front-end to
the routine \fBrabins\fP and rrd-tool, which is used to generate
PNG formatted graphs. As a result \fBragraph\fP supports all the
raoption and most of the options to the rrd-tool graphing functions.

.LP
.SH RA OPTIONS
Ragraph, like all ra based clients, supports a number of
\fBra options\fP including filtering of input argus
records through a terminating filter expression, and
specifying an output filename using the -w option.
 
See \fBra(1)\fP for a complete description of \fBra options\fP.

.SH RRDTOOL GRAPH OPTIONS
Ragraph, when using rrdtool as the graphing backend, will pass
rrdgraph specific options to the appropriate rrdtool module.
These are the specific rrdtool options that are supported.
.SH Appearance
.TP 4 4
.B \-fill
Turn off area fill.
.TP 4 4
.B \-stack
Turn off data stacking.
.TP 4 4
.B \-split
Turn off axis splitting for src/dst(in/out) traffic.
.TP 4 4
.B \-invert
Invert a split graph, so that src and dest data are flipped.
.TP 4 4
.B \-rigid
Pass rrdtool rigid parameter to rrdgraph.
.SH Labels
.TP 4 4
.B \-title string
Specify a graph title.
.TP 4 4
.B \-vertical-label string
Specify a vertically placed yaxis label.
.SH Size
.TP 4 4
.B \-height pixels
Specify height in pixels for the graph (275 pixels)
.TP 4 4
.B \-width pixels
Specify width in pixels for the graph (800 pixels)
.TP 4 4
.B \-only-graph
Generate only the graph with out any borders, title, labels, legend.
.SH Limits
.TP 4 4
.B \-upper value
Specify upper bounds for graphing data (automatic).
.TP 4 4
.B \-lower value
Specify lower bounds for graphing data (automatic).  When data is
split, you need to specify the value as a negative number.
.TP 4 4
.B \-alt-autoscale
.TP 4 4
.B \-alt-autoscale-max
Use rrdtool alternate y-axis autoscale algorithm.  See rrdgraph manpage for information.
.TP 4 4
.B \-no-gridfit
Disable rrdtool grid scale modification strategies.  See rrdgraph manpage for information.
.SH Grid
.TP 4 4
.B \-x-grid GTM:GST:MTM:MST:LTM:LST:LPR:LFM | none
Modify rrdtool x-axis label definition.  See rrdgraph manpage for information.
.TP 4 4
.B \-y-grid 'grid step:label factor' | none
Modify rrdtool y-axis label definition.  The use of ' is important to parsing the
option correctly. See rrdgraph manpage for information.
.TP 4 4
.B \-alt-y-grid
Modify rrdtool default y-grid behavior.  See rrdgraph manpage for information.
.TP 4 4
.B \-log
Use logarithmic scale for y-axis.
.TP 4 4
.B \-units-exponent value
Set the 10** exponent scaling of the y-axis.  See rrdgraph manpage for information.
.TP 4 4
.B \-units-length value
Set the width of the y-axis border.  See rrdgraph manpage for information.
.TP 4 4
.B \-units=si
Turn off expoenential notation for logarithmic graphs.  See rrdgraph manpage for information.
.SH Miscellaneous
.TP 4 4
.B \-imginfo printfstr
Adds img information to the graph.  See rrdgraph manpage for information.
.TP 4 4
.B \-zoom factor
Zoom the graphics by the given factor.  See rrdgraph manpage for information.
.TP 4 4
.B \-font FONTTAG:size:[font]
Modify rrdgraph default font.  See rrdgraph manpage for information.
.TP 4 4
.B \-font-render-mode {normal,light,mono}
Modify rrdgraph font smoothing strength.  See rrdgraph manpage for information.
.TP 4 4
.B \-font-smoothing-threshold size
Modify rrdgraph font smoothing font size.  See rrdgraph manpage for information.
.TP 4 4
.B \-slope-mode
Modify rrdgraph slope-mode option.  See rrdgraph manpage for information.
.TP 4 4
.B \-no-legend
Supress generation of the legend.
.TP 4 4
.B \-watermark string
Adds the given string as a watermark.  See rrdgraph manpage for information.
.TP 4 4
.B \-norrdwmark
Disables the default rrdtool watermark from appearing on the graph.

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
To graph the total load for the data in an \fIargus-file\fP argus.data
at 10 second intervals:
.RS
.nf
\fBragraph bytes -M 10s -r argus.data -title "Total Load"
.fi
.RE
.LP
To graph the rate (pkt/sec) on a destination port basis for the
data from a specific probe in an \fIargus-file\fP argus.data at
1 minute intervals:
.RS
.nf
\fBragraph bytes dport -M 1m -r argus.data - srcid 192.168.0.10
.fi
.RE

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2000-2016 QoSient. All rights reserved.
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Carter Bullard (carter@qosient.com).
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rrdtool http://oss.oetiker.sh/rrdtool
.BR ragraph (5),
.BR ra (1),
.BR rarc (5),
.BR argus (8)
