.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2016 QoSient, LLC
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
.\" any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH RALABEL 1 "12 August 2003" "ralabel 3.0.8"
.SH NAME
\fBralabel\fP \- inserts fixed form or free form metadata labels into \fBargus(8)\fP.
\fBralabel\fP supports a number of strategies for labeling including 1) address based,
providing free form metadata, country code, geo data and fully qualified domain name
(FQDN) labeling; 2)port based, providing free form labels using IANA port definitions,
and 3) flow filter, providing free form labels based on argus filter specicfications.


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ralabel
\fB\-f\fP \fIaddress.file\fP [\fBraoptions\fP] [\fB--\fP \fIfilter-expression\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "ralabel command"  ""  "\fBralabel\fP \(em argus data"
.LP
\fBRalabel\fP reads
.BR argus
data from an \fIargus-data\fP source, and selects records that include IP addresses
specified by the \fBaddress.spec\fP file.  This program provides high performance
address matching for any number of addresses.

.SH RALABEL ADDRESS SPECIFICATION
Ralabel, reads a number of standard IANA IP address file formats that
specific IPv4 addresses, CIDR addresses and IPV4 prefix address specification.
Examples of these file types are provided in ./support/Config.

\fBralabel(1)\fP specific options are:
.TP 4 4
.BI \-f "\| label.strategy.specification.file\^"

.SH INVOCATION
This invocation reads \fBargus(8)\fP data from \fBargusfile\fP and labels
records that match any options in the \fBralabel.conf\fP file.
.nf
 
   \fBralabel\fP -r argusfile -f ralabel.conf - ip
 
.fi

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2000-2016 QoSient. All rights reserved.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ralabel.conf.5,
.BR ra(1),
.BR rarc(5),
.BR argus(8),

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Carter Bullard (carter@qosient.com).
.fi
