.\"
.\" Argus-5.0 Software
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2024 QoSient, LLC
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"
.TH RAMANAGE 1 "13 November 2023" "ramanage 5.0.3"
.SH NAME
\fBramanage\fP \- utility for argus file archive management
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ramanage
.I [raoptions] -r filename

.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "ramanage command"  ""  "\fLramanage\fP \(em filename"
.LP
.B Ramanage
is a utility to handle the common tasks associated with managing long-term
storage of argus data files.
It provides three operations: compress, upload and delete.
Compression is always gzip and is built into the command via libz.
Uploads are handled by libcurl, if available, and handled by an external
curl executable otherwise.
Uploads use HTTPS for transport and can be authenticated with either
BasicAuth or SPNEGO.
On Windows systems, SPNEGO will provide Kerberos V5 authentication if
the system is part of a Domain (and has a host key).

.LP
.SH OPTIONS
Ramanage ignores most client options.
It does pay attention to the "-f" option to read a configuration file,
and requires a single "-r" option (only one file).
The configuration must enable at least one command since all are off
by default.

.SH EXAMPLE INVOCATION

This example runs \fBracount\fP with a specific configuration file.

.nf
.ft CW
.ps 8
% ramanage -f ./ramanage-alt-config.conf \\
.in +0.5i
-r argus.2012.02.13.17.20.00.out
.in -0.5i
.ps
.ft P
.fi

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Eric Kinzie <eric@qosient.com>
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ramanage.conf (5)

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2000-2024 QoSient. All rights reserved.
