.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2016 QoSient, LLC
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" QOSIENT, LLC DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
.\" FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL QOSIENT, LLC BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\" SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER
.\" RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF
.\" CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN
.\" CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\"
.TH RANONYMIZE 1 "04 December 2001" "ranonymize 3.0.8"
.SH NAME
\fBranonymize\fP \- anonymize \fBargus(8)\fP data fields.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ranonymize [\fB-f anonymize.conf\fP] [\fBraoptions\fP] [\fB--\fP \fIfilter-expression\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "ranonymize command"  ""  "\fLranonymize\fP \(em argus data"
.LP
.B Ranonymize
reads
.BR argus
data from an \fIargus-data\fP source, strips out specific fields, 
and anonymizes the remaining fields in Argus records, including the network
addresses, protocol specific port numbers, timestamps, transaction reference
numbers, TCP base sequence numbers, IP identifiers, and any record sequence
numbers.

Anonymization is controlled through an anonymization configuration file.
See \fBranonymize(5)\fP for a complete description.

.SH OPTIONS
Ranonymize, shares all the same options as \fBra(1)\fP.
See \fBra(1)\fP for a complete description of \fBra options\fP.
\fBranonymize(1)\fP specific options are:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 3
.BI \-f
anonymization.confile

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2000-2016 QoSient. All rights reserved.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ra(1),
.BR rarc(5),
.BR ranonymize(5),
.SH FILES

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Carter Bullard (carter@qosient.com).
.fi
.SH BUGS
