.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2016 QoSient, LLC
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
.\" any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH RASORT 1 "07 November 2000" "rasort 3.0.8"
.SH NAME
\fBrasort\fP \- sort \fBargus(8)\fP data file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rasort
[[\fB\-M\fP \fIsortmode\fP] [\fB\-m\fP \fIsort fields\fP] ...]
[\fBraoptions\fP] [\fB--\fP \fIfilter-expression\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "rasort command"  ""  "\fLrasort\fP \(em argus data"
.LP
.B Rasort
reads
.BR argus
data from an \fIargus-data\fP source, sorts the records based on
the criteria specified on the command line, and outputs a valid
\fIargus-stream\fP.
.SH OPTIONS
Rasort, like all ra based clients, supports a number of
\fBra options\fP including filtering of input argus
records through a terminating filter expression.
See \fBra(1)\fP for a complete description of \fBra options\fP.
\fBrasort(1)\fP specific options are:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 4
.B \-M replace
Replace the existing file(s) with the sorted output(s).

.TP 4
.BI \-m "\| field [field ...]\^"
Supported sort fields are:
.PP
.RS
.TP 15
.B stime
record start time <default>
.TP
.B ltime
record last time.
.TP
.B trans
aggregation record count.
.TP
.B dur
record total duration.
.TP
.B avgdur
record average duration.
.TP
.B mindur
record minimum duration.
.TP
.B maxdur
record maximum duration.
.TP
.B smac
source MAC addr.
.TP
.B dmac
destination MAC addr.
.TP
.B soui
oui portion of the source MAC addr.
.TP
.B doui
oui portion of the destination MAC addr.
.TP
.B saddr[/cidr]
source IP addr, with optional cidr specification for IPv4 addresses.
.TP
.B daddr[/cidr]
destination IP addr, with optional cidr specification for IPv4 addresses.
.TP
.B proto
transaction protocol.
.TP
.B sport
source port number.
.TP
.B dport
destination port number.
.TP
.B stos
source TOS byte value.
.TP
.B dtos
destination TOS byte value.
.TP
.B sttl
src -> dst TTL value.
.TP
.B dttl
dst -> src TTL value.
.TP
.B bytes
total transaction bytes.
.TP
.B sbytes
src -> dst transaction bytes.
.TP
.B dbytes
dst -> src transaction bytes.
.TP
.B pkts
total transaction packet count.
.TP
.B spkts
src -> dst packet count.
.TP
.B dpkts
dst -> src packet count.
.TP
.B load
bits per second.
.TP
.B sload
source bits per second.
.TP
.B dload
destination bits per second.
.TP
.B loss
pkts retransmitted or dropped.
.TP
.B sloss
source pkts retransmitted or dropped.
.TP
.B dloss
destination pkts retransmitted or dropped.
.TP
.B ploss
percent pkts retransmitted or dropped.
.TP 
.B sploss
percent source pkts retransmitted or dropped. 
.TP
.B dploss
percent destination pkts retransmitted or dropped.
.TP
.B rate
pkts per second.
.TP
.B srate
source pkts per second.
.TP
.B drate
destination pkts per second.
.TP
.B tranref
argus transaction reference number.
.TP
.B seq
argus sequence number.
.TP
.B smpls
source MPLS identifier.
.TP
.B dmpls
destination MPLS identifier.
.TP
.B svlan
source VLAN identifier.
.TP
.B dvlan
destination VLAN identifier.
.TP
.B srcid
argus source identifier.
.TP
.B stcpb
source TCP base sequence number.
.TP
.B dtcpb
destination TCP base sequence number.
.TP
.B tcprtt
TCP connection setup round-trip time.
.TP
.B smeansz
source mean packet size
.TP
.B dmeansz
destination mean packet size
.TP
.B sco
source country code
.TP
.B dco
destination country code
.TP
.B sas
source autonomous system number
.TP
.B das
destination autonomous system number

.PD
.RE

.SH INVOCATION
A sample invocation of \fBrasort(1)\fP.  This call reads \fBargus(8)\fP data
from \fBinputfile\fP and sorts the IP protocol based \fBargus(8)\fP data, first
by the destination IP address, then by the service (destination) port number
and then by the source IP address, and writes the results to stdout.
For most services, this arranges \fBargus(8)\fP formatted data by server,
service, and then by client.
.TP 5
\fBrasort\fP -r inputfile -m daddr dport saddr - ip

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2000-2016 QoSient. All rights reserved.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ra(1),
.BR rarc(5),
.BR argus(8),
.SH FILES

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Carter Bullard (carter@qosient.com).
.fi
.SH BUGS
