.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2016 QoSient, LLC
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
.\" any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH RASQL 1 "12 August 2009" "rasql 3.0.8"
.SH NAME
\fBrasql\fP \- read \fBargus(8)\fP data from mysql database.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rasql
[\fB\-M\fP \fIsql='where clause'\fP] -r mysql://user@host/db/table [\fBraoptions\fP] [\fB--\fP \fIfilter-expression\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "rasql command"  ""  "\fBrasql\fP \(em argus data"
.LP
\fBRasql\fP reads
.BR argus
data from an argus-client generated mysql database. 

The principal function of rasql is to extract the 'record' binary blob
that is inserted by \fIrasqlinsert.1\fP when adding argus data to a
mysql table.

.SH RASQL SPECIFIC OPTIONS
Rasql, like all ra based clients, supports a number of \fBra options\fP 
including filtering of input argus records through a terminating filter expression. 
\fBrasql(1)\fP specific options are:
.TP 4 4
.BI \-M "\| sql='where clause'\^"
This appends the 'where clause' to the SELECT mysql database command.
providing a means to use SQL select and join strategies when performing queries.


.SH INVOCATION
This invocation reads \fBargus(8)\fP data from the \fItable\fP table that
is contained in the \fIdb\fP database, using the \fIuser\fP database account,
and instructs MySQL to select records where the database attribute 'saddr'
equals to the string '2.3.4.5'.

.nf
 
   \fBrasql\fP -r mysql://user@localhost/db/table -M sql="saddr='2.3.4.5'"
 
.fi
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2000-2016 QoSient. All rights reserved.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ra(1),
.BR rasqlinsert(1),
.BR rarc(5),
.BR argus(8),

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Carter Bullard (carter@qosient.com).
.fi
