.\"
.\" Argus-5.0 Software
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2024 QoSient, LLC
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"
.TH RASQLCHECKCONF 1 "12 August 2023" "rasqlcheckconf 5.0.2"
.SH NAME
\fBrasqlcheckconf\fP \- write \fBargus(8)\fP data into mysql database tables.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rasqlcheckconf
[\fBraoptions\fP] [\fB--\fP \fIfilter-expression\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "rasqlcheckconf command"  ""  "\fBrasqlcheckconf\fP \(em argus data"
.LP
\fBrasqlcheckconf\fP writes
.BR argus
data into a mysql database. 

The principal function of \fBrasqlcheckconf\fP is to compare an argus.conf file
with the entries in a MySQL database table. Using the same syntax and strategies for
all other ra* programs, \fBrasqlcheckconf\fP creates databases and database tables,
as needed based on the print specification on the either the command-line or the
.rarc file.

\fBrasqlcheckconf\fP by default, will compare \fB/etc/argus.conf\fP with the entries
in the \fBargusConf\fP table in the argus database.  If the database is different,
\fBrasqlcheckconf\fP will return a non-zero RETURN VALUE.  If the "-M replace" option
is provided, \fBrasqlcheckconf\fP will replace the database table, with the items
in the \fBargus.conf\fP file.

Using the standard ra* client command line options, you can specify particular argus.conf
files, and modify the database and table names use for comparison.

.LP
.SH RASQLCHECKCONF SPECIFIC OPTIONS
\fBrasqlcheckconf\fP, like all ra based clients, supports a number of \fBra options\fP.

There are no \fBrasqlcheckconf(1)\fP specific options.


.SH INVOCATION
This invocation compares the default \fB/etc/argus.conf\fP configuration with the
default database and table, or ones that are specified in the users .rarc file.

   \fBrasqlcheckconf\fP
   

This invocation compares the default \fB/etc/argus.conf\fP configuration with a
specific database table.
.nf
 
   \fBrasqlcheckconf\fP -r mysql://root@localhost/argus/argusConf 

.fi

This invocation compares an alternate \fBargus.conf\fP configuration with a
specific database table, and replaces the database entries if there are differences.
.nf

   \fBrasqlcheckconf\fP -f argus.conf -r mysql://root@localhost/argus/argusConf -M replace
 
.fi

.SH RETURN VALUES
\fBrasqlcheckconf\fP exits with one of the following values:
.nf

   0  All entries matched.

   1  The contents of the database table did not match the configuration file

   2  The database table was empty or did not exist 
.fi

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2000-2024 QoSient. All rights reserved.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rasql(1),
.BR ra(1),
.BR rarc(5),
.BR argus(8),

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Carter Bullard (carter@qosient.com).
.fi
