.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2016 QoSient, LLC
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
.\" any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH RASQLTIMEINDEX 1 "12 August 2009" "rasqltimeindex 3.0.8"
.SH NAME
\fBrasqltimeindex\fP \- read \fBargus(8)\fP data from mysql database.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rasqltimeindex -r argus.data.file -w mysql://user@host/db
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "rasqltimeindex command"  ""  "\fBrasqltimeindex\fP \(em argus data"
.LP
\fBRasqltimeindex\fP index
.BR argus
data files by time.

The principal function of rasqltimeindex is to provide fast access
to indexed argus data files based on time.

Rasqltimeindex, like all ra based clients, supports a number of \fBra options\fP 
\fBrasqltimeindex(1)\fP specific options are:

.SH RASQLTIMEINDEX SPECIFIC OPTIONS
.TP 4 4
.B \-w <mysql://[user[:pass]@]host[:port]/db>
Specify the mysql database to use in maintaining the 'Seconds', 'Probe', and 'Filename'
database index tables.


.SH INVOCATION
This invocation reads \fBargus(8)\fP data from the \fIfile\fP argus.file and
creates an index of every second in the file in the \fIdb\fP database, using
the \fIuser\fP database account.
.nf
 
   \fBrasqltimeindex\fP -r argus.file -w mysql://user@localhost/db
 
.fi

To take advantage of the speedup provided by the time indexing, use \fBrasql\fP to
read the mysql database, with a time filter.  This example will read from the database
that contains the 'Seconds', 'Probe', and 'Filename' database index tables, 
and search for all flow records from 00:00:00 - 00:00:25, 20 days ago.
.nf

   \fBrasql\fP -r mysql://user@localhost/db -t -20d+25s

.fi


.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2000-2016 QoSient. All rights reserved.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ra(1),
.BR rasql(1),
.BR rarc(5),
.BR argus(8),

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Carter Bullard (carter@qosient.com).
.fi
