.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2016 QoSient, LLC
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
.\" any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH RASTRIP 1 "07 November 2000" "rastrip 3.0.8"
.SH NAME
\fBrastrip\fP \- strip \fBargus(8)\fP data file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rastrip
[\fB\-M\fP [replace] [+|-]\fIdsr\fP [-M ...]]
[\fBraoptions\fP] [\fB--\fP \fIfilter-expression\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "rastrip command"  ""  "\fLrastrip\fP \(em argus data"
.LP
.B Rastrip
reads
.BR argus
data from an \fIargus-data\fP source, strips the records based on
the criteria specified on the command line, and outputs a valid
\fIargus-stream\fP. This is useful to reduce the size of argus data files.
Rastrip always removes argus management transactions, thus having
the same effect as a 'not man' filter expression. 
.SH OPTIONS
Rastrip, like all ra based clients, supports a number of
\fBra options\fP including filtering of input argus
records through a terminating filter expression.
See \fBra(1)\fP for a complete description of \fBra options\fP.
\fBrastrip(1)\fP specific options are:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 4 4
.B \-M [+|-]dsr
Strip specified dsr (data set record).

Supported dsrs are:
.PP
.RS
.TP
.B flow
flow key data (proto, saddr, sport, dir, daddr, dport)
.TP
.B time
time stamp fields (stime, ltime).
.TP
.B metric
basic ([s|d]bytes, [s|d]pkts, [s|d]rate, [s|d]load)
.TP
.B agr
aggregation stats (trans, avgdur, mindur, maxdur, stdev).
.TP
.B net
network objects (tcp, esp, rtp, icmp data).
.TP
.B vlan
VLAN tag data 
.TP
.B mpls
MPLS label data
.TP
.B jitter
Jitter data ([s|d]jit, [s|d]intpkt)
.TP
.B ipattr
IP attributes ([s|d]ipid, [s|d]tos, [s|d]dsb, [s|d]ttl)
.TP
.B suser
src user captured data bytes (suser)
.TP
.B duser
dst captured user data bytes (duser)
.TP
.B mac
MAC addresses (smac, dmac)
.TP
.B icmp
ICMP specific data (icmpmap, inode)
.TP
.B encaps
Flow encapsulation type indications
.PD
.RE

In the default mode, without the -M option, rastrip removes the following default set of dsrs: encaps, agr, vlan, mpls, mac, icmp, ipattr, jitter, suser, duser

.TP 4 4
.B \-M replace
Replace the existing file with the newly striped file.

.SH INVOCATION
A sample invocation of \fBrastrip(1)\fP.  This call reads \fBargus(8)\fP data
from \fBinputfile\fP and strips the default dsr set but keeps MAC addresses and writes the result
to \fBoutputfile\fP:

\fBrastrip -M +mac -r inputfile -w outputfile\fP

This call removes only captured user data and timings and writes the result to stdout:

\fBrastrip -M -suser -M -duser -M -time -r inputfile\fP

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2000-2016 QoSient. All rights reserved.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ra(1),
.BR rarc(5),
.BR argus(8),
.SH FILES

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Carter Bullard (carter@qosient.com).
.fi
.SH BUGS
